These Voidbringers know no songs. They cannot hear Roshar, and
where they go, they bring silence. They look soft, with no shell, but
they are hard. They have but one heart, and it cannot ever live.
- From the Eila Stele
"No," Dalinar whispered again, voice ragged as the Thrill thrummed
inside of him. "No. You are wrong."
Odium gripped Dalinar's shoulder. "What does she say?"
She?
He heard Evi crying. Screaming. Begging for her life as the flames took
her.
"Don't blame yourself," Odium said as Dalinar winced. "I made you kill
her, Dalinar. I caused all of this. Do you remember? I can help. Here."
Memories flooded Dalinar's mind, a devastating onslaught of images.
He lived them all in detail, somehow squeezed into a moment, the Thrill
raging inside of him.
He saw himself stab a poor soldier in the back. A young man trying to
crawl to safety, crying for his mother ... 
"I was with you then," Odium said.
He killed a far better man than himself, a highlord who had held Teleb's
loyalty. Dalinar knocked him to the ground, then slammed a poleaxe into
his chest.
"I was with you then."
Dalinar fought atop a strange rock formation, facing another man who
knew the Thrill. Dalinar dropped him to the ground with burning eyes, and
called it a mercy.
"I was with you then."
He raged at Gavilar, anger and lust rising as twin emotions. He broke a
man in a tavern, frustrated that he'd been held back from enjoying the
fight. He fought on the borders of Jah Keved, laughing, corpses littering
the ground. He remembered every moment of the carnage. He felt each
death like a spike driven into his soul. He began to weep for the
destruction.
"It's what you needed to do, Dalinar," Odium said. "You made a better
kingdom!"
"So ...  much ...  pain."
"Blame me, Dalinar. It wasn't you! You saw red when you did those
things! It was my fault. Accept that. You don't have to hurt."
Dalinar blinked, meeting Odium's eyes.
"Let me have the pain, Dalinar," Odium said. "Give it to me, and never
feel guilty again."
"No." Dalinar hugged The Way of Kings close. "No. I can't."
"Oh, Dalinar. What does she say?"
No ... 
"Have you forgotten? Here, let me help."
And he was back in that day. The day he killed Evi.
* * *
Szeth found purpose in wielding the sword.
It screamed at him to destroy evil, even if evil was obviously a concept
that the sword itself could not understand. Its vision was occluded, like
Szeth's own. A metaphor.
How was a twisted soul like his to decide who should die? Impossible.
And so he put his trust in someone else, someone whose light peeked
through the shadow.
Dalinar Kholin. Knight Radiant. He would know.
This choice was not perfect. But ...  Stones Unhallowed ...  it was the
best he could manage. It brought him some small measure of peace as he
swept through the enemy army.
The sword screamed at him. DESTROY!
Anyone he so much as nicked popped into black smoke. Szeth laid
waste to the red-eyed soldiers, who kept coming, showing no fear.
Screaming, as if they thirsted for death.
It was a drink that Szeth was all too good at serving.
He wielded Stormlight in one hand, Lashing any men who drew too
close, sending them flipping into the air or crashing backward into their
fellows. With the other hand he swept the sword through their ranks. He
moved on nimble feet, his own body Lashed upward just enough to lighten
him. Skybreakers didn't have access to all of the Lashings, but the most
useful- and most deadly- were still his.
Remember the gemstone.
A phantom sense called to him, a desire to continue killing, to revel in
the butchery. Szeth rejected it, sick. He had never enjoyed this. He could
never enjoy this.
The Voidbringer with the gemstone had slipped away, moving on tooswift feet. Szeth pointed the sword- a piece of him terrified by how
quickly it was chewing through his own Stormlight- and Lashed himself
to follow. He plowed through soldiers, men bursting into smoke, seeking
that one individual.
The Voidbringer turned at the last moment, dancing away from his
sword. Szeth Lashed himself downward, then spun in a sweeping arc,
towing black smoke- almost liquid- behind his sword as he destroyed
men in a grand circle.
EVIL! the sword cried.
Szeth leaped for the Voidbringer woman, but she dropped to the ground
and slid on the stone as if it were greased. His sword swung over her head,
and she pushed herself backward toward him, sliding right past his legs.
There, she swept gracefully to her feet and seized the sheath off Szeth's
back, where he'd tied it for safekeeping.
It broke free. When Szeth turned to attack, she blocked the sword with
its own sheath. How had she done that? Was there something about the
silvery metal that Szeth didn't know?
She blocked his next few attacks, then ducked away from his attempts to
Lash her.
The sword was growing frustrated. DESTROY, DESTROY, DESTROY!
Black veins began to grow around Szeth's hand, creeping toward his upper
arm.
He struck again, but she simply slipped away, moving across the ground
as if natural laws had no purchase on her. Other soldiers piled in, and the
pain started up Szeth's arm as he worked death among them.
* * *
Jasnah stopped one pace behind Renarin. She could hear his whispers
clearly now. "Father. Oh, Father... " The young man whipped his head in
one direction, then another, seeing things that weren't there.
"He sees not what is, but what is to come," Ivory said. "Odium's power,
Jasnah."
* * *
"Taln," Ash whispered, kneeling before him. "Oh, Taln... "
The Herald stared forward with dark eyes. "I am Talenel'Elin, Herald of
War. The time of the Return, the Desolation, is near at hand.... "
"Taln?" Ash took his hand. "It's me. It's Ash."
"We must prepare. You will have forgotten much.... "
"Please, Taln."
"Kalak will teach you to cast bronze.... "
He just continued on, repeating the same words over and over and over.
* * *
Kaladin fell to his knees on the cold obsidian of Shadesmar.
Fused descended around them, six figures in brilliant, flapping clothing.
He had a single slim hope. Each Ideal he'd spoken had resulted in an
outpouring of power and strength. He licked his lips and tried whispering
it. "I ...  I will... "
He thought of friends lost. Malop. Jaks. Beld and Pedin.
Say it, storm you!
"I... "
Rod and Mart. Bridgemen he'd failed. And before them, slaves he'd
tried to save. Goshel. Nalma, caught in a trap like a beast.
A windspren appeared near him, like a line of light. Then another.
A single hope.
The Words. Say the Words!
* * *
"Oh, Mother! Oh, Cultivation!" Wyndle cried as they watched the assassin
murder his way across the field. "What have we done?"
"We've pointed him away from us," Lift said as she perched on a
boulder, her eyes wide. "You'd rather he was close by?"
Wyndle continued to whimper, and Lift kinda understood. That was a lot
of killing that the assassin did. Red-eyed men who seemed to have no light
left in them, true, but ...  storms.
She'd lost track of the woman with the gemstone, but at least the army
seemed to be flowing away from Szeth, leaving him fewer people to kill.
He stumbled, slowing, then dropped to his knees.
"Uh-oh." Lift summoned Wyndle as a rod in case the assassin lost his
starvin' mind- what was left of it- and attacked her. She slipped off the
rock, then ran over.
He held the strange Shardblade before himself. It continued to leak
black liquid that vaporized as it streamed toward the ground. His hand had
gone all black.
"I... " Szeth said. "I have lost the sheath.... "
"Drop the sword!"
"I ...  can't.... " Szeth said, teeth gritted. "It holds to me, feasting upon
my ...  my Stormlight. It will soon consume me."
Stormsstormsstormsstorms. "Right. Right. Ummmmm... " Lift looked
around. The army was flooding into the city. The second stone monster
was stomping across the Ancient Ward, stepping on buildings. Dalinar
Kholin still stood before the gap. Maybe ...  maybe he could help?
"Come on," Lift said.
* * *
"Kill the man," said the captain holding Navani. He swept his hand toward
old Kmakl, Fen's consort. "We don't need him."
Fen screamed against her gag, but she was held tightly. Navani carefully
wiggled her safehand fingers out of her sleeve, then touched her other arm
and the fabrial there, flipping a latch. Small knobs extended from the front
of the device, just above her wrist.
Kmakl struggled to stand. He seemed to want to face his death with
dignity, but the other two soldiers didn't give him that honor. They pushed
him back against the wall, one pulling out a dagger.
Navani seized the arm of the man holding her, then pressed the knobs of
her pain fabrial against his skin. He screamed and dropped, writhing in
agony. One of the others turned toward her, and she pressed the painrial
against his uplifted hand. She'd tested the device on herself, of course, so
she knew what it felt like. A thousand needles being shoved into your skin,
under your nails, into your eyes.
The second man wet himself as he dropped.
The last one managed to cut a gash in her arm before she sent him to the
ground, spasming. Bother. She flipped the switch on the painrial, drawing
away the agony of the cut. Then she took the knife and quickly cut Fen's
bonds. As the queen freed Kmakl, Navani bound her painless wound.
"These will recover soon," Navani said. "We may need to dispatch them
before that happens."
Kmakl kicked the man who had almost slit his throat, then cracked the
door into the city. A troop of men with glowing eyes rushed past. The
entire area was overrun with them.
"These are the least of our trouble, it seems," the aging man said,
shutting the door.
"Back up to the wall, then," Fen said. "We might be able to spot friendly
troops from that vantage."
Navani nodded, and Fen led the way up. At the top, they barred the door.
There were bars on both sides; you wanted to be able to lock out enemies
who had seized the wall, and also ones who had broken through the gates.
Navani surveyed their options. A quick glance revealed that the streets
were indeed held by Amaram's troops. Some groups of Thaylens held
ground farther up, but they were falling quickly.
"By Kelek, storms, and Passions alike," Kmakl said. "What is that?"
He'd noticed the red mist on the north side of the battlefield, with its
horrific images forming and breaking apart. Shadows of soldiers dying, of
skeletal features, of charging horses. It was a grand, intimidating sight.
But Dalinar ...  Dalinar drew her eyes. Standing alone, surrounded by
enemy soldiers, and facing something she could just barely sense.
Something vast. Something unimaginable.
Something angry.
* * *
Dalinar lived in two places.
He saw himself crossing a darkened landscape, dragging his Shardblade
behind him. He was on the field at Thaylen City with Odium, but he was
also in the past, approaching Rathalas. Urged on by the boiling red anger
of the Thrill. He returned to the camp, to the surprise of his men, like a
spren of death. Coated in blood, eyes glowing.
Glowing red.
He ordered the oil brought. He turned toward a city where Evi was
imprisoned, where children slept, where innocent people hid and prayed
and burned glyphwards and wept.
"Please... " Dalinar whispered in Thaylen City. "Don't make me live it
again."
"Oh, Dalinar," Odium said. "You will live it again and again until you
let go. You can't carry this burden. Please, give it to me. I drove you to do
this. It wasn't your fault."
Dalinar pulled The Way of Kings close against his chest, clutching it,
like a child with his blanket in the night. But a sudden flash of light
blasted in front of him, accompanied by a deafening crack.
Dalinar stumbled backward. Lightning. That had been lightning. Had it
struck him?
No. It had somehow struck only the book. Burned pages fluttered around
him, singed and smoldering. It had been blasted right from his hands.
Odium shook his head. "The words of a man long dead, long failed."
Overhead, the sun finally passed behind the clouds of the storm, and all
fell into darkness. Slowly, the flames of the burning pages went out.
* * *
Teft huddled someplace dark.
Maybe the darkness would hide his sins. But in the distance, he heard
shouting. Men fighting.
Bridge Four dying.
* * *
Kaladin stuttered, the Words stumbling.
He thought of his men from Amaram's army. Dallet and his squad, slain
either by Shallan's brother or by Amaram. Such good friends who had
fallen.
And then, of course, he thought of Tien.
* * *
Dalinar fell to his knees. A few gloryspren swirled around him, but Odium
batted them away, and they faded.
In the back of his mind, the Stormfather wept.
He saw himself step up to where Evi was imprisoned. That tomb in the
rock. Dalinar tried to look away, but the vision was everywhere. He didn't
merely see it, he lived it. He ordered Evi's death, and listened to her
screams.
"Please... "
Odium wasn't done with him. Dalinar had to watch the city burn, hear
the children die. He gritted his teeth, groaning in agony. Before, his pains
had driven him to drink. There was no drink now. Just the Thrill.
He had always craved it. The Thrill had made him live. Without it ... 
he'd ...  he'd been dead.... 
He slumped, bowing his head, listening to the tears of a woman who had
believed in him. He'd never deserved her. The Stormfather's weeping
faded as Odium somehow shoved the spren away, separating them.
That left Dalinar alone.
"So alone... "
"You're not alone, Dalinar," Odium said, going down on one knee
beside him. "I'm here. I've always been here."
The Thrill boiled within. And Dalinar knew. He knew he'd always been a
fraud. He was the same as Amaram. He had an honest reputation, but was a
murderer on the inside. A destroyer. A child killer.
"Let go," Odium whispered.
Dalinar squeezed his eyes shut, trembling, hands tense as he hunched
over and clawed the ground. It hurt so badly. To know that he'd failed
them. Navani, Adolin, Elhokar, Gavilar. He couldn't live with this.
He couldn't live with her tears!
"Give it to me," Odium pled.
Dalinar ripped his fingernails off, but the pain of the body couldn't
distract him. It was nothing beside the agony of his soul.
Of knowing what he truly was.
* * *
Szeth tried to walk toward Dalinar. The darkness had grown up his arm,
and the sword drank his last wisps of Stormlight.
There was ...  was a lesson in this ...  wasn't there? There had to be.
Nin ...  Nin wanted him to learn.... 
He fell to the ground, still holding the sword as it screamed mindlessly.
DESTROY EVIL.
The little Radiant girl scrambled to him. She looked toward the sky as
the sun vanished behind clouds. Then she took Szeth's head in her hands.
"No... " he tried to croak. It will take you too.... 
She breathed life into him somehow, and the sword drank of it freely.
Her eyes went wide as the black veins began to grow up her fingers and
hands.
* * *
Renarin didn't want to die. But strangely, he found himself welcoming
Jasnah's strike.
Better to die than to live to see what was happening to his father. For he
saw the future. He saw his father in black armor, a plague upon the land.
He saw the Blackthorn return, a terrible scourge with nine shadows.
Odium's champion.
"He's going to fall," Renarin whispered. "He's already fallen. He
belongs to the enemy now. Dalinar Kholin ...  is no more."
* * *
Venli shivered on the plain, near Odium. Timbre had been pulsing to
Peace, but now she quieted. Twenty or thirty yards away, a figure in white
clothing collapsed to the ground, a little girl at his side.
Nearer to her, Dalinar Kholin- the man who had resisted- slumped
forward, head bowed, holding one hand against his chest and trembling.
Odium stepped back, his appearance that of a parshman with golden
carapace. "It is done," he said, looking toward Venli and the gathered
group of Fused. "You have a leader."
"We must follow one of them?" Turash asked. "A human?"
Venli's breath caught. There had been no respect in that tone.
Odium smiled. "You will follow me, Turash, or I will reclaim that
which gives you persistent life. I care not for the shape of the tool. Only
that it cuts."
Turash bowed his head.
Stone crunched as a figure in glittering Shardplate walked up to them,
carrying a Shardblade in one hand and- strangely- an empty sheath in the
other. The human had his faceplate up, exposing red eyes. He tossed the
silvery sheath to the ground. "I was told to deliver that to you."
"Well done, Meridas," Odium said. "Abaray, could you provide this
human with an appropriate housing for Yelig-nar?"
One of the Fused stepped forward and proffered a small, uncut
smokestone toward the human, Meridas.
"And what is this?" Meridas asked.
"The fulfillment of my promise to you," Odium said. "Swallow it."
"What?"
"If you wish for the promised power, ingest that- then try to control the
one who follows. But be warned, the queen at Kholinar tried this, and the
power consumed her."
Meridas held up the gemstone, inspecting it, then glanced toward
Dalinar Kholin. "So, you've been speaking to him all this time too?"
"Even longer than I've been speaking to you."
"Can I kill him?"
"Someday, assuming I don't let him kill you." Odium rested his hand on
the shoulder of the huddled Dalinar Kholin. "It's done, Dalinar. The pain
has passed. Stand up and claim the station you were born to obtain."
* * *
Kaladin thought, finally, of Dalinar.
Could Kaladin do it? Could he really say these Words? Could he mean
them?
The Fused swept close. Adolin bled.
"I... "
You know what you need to do.
"I ...  can't," Kaladin finally whispered, tears streaming down his
cheeks. "I can't lose him, but ...  oh, Almighty ...  I can't save him."
Kaladin bowed his head, sagging forward, trembling.
He couldn't say those Words.
He wasn't strong enough.
Syl's arms enfolded him from behind, and he felt softness as her cheek
pressed against the back of his neck. She pulled him tight as he wept,
sobbing, at his failure.
* * *
Jasnah raised her Blade over Renarin's head.
Make it quick. Make it painless.
Most threats to a dynasty came from within.
Renarin was obviously corrupted. She'd known there was a problem the
moment she'd read that he had predicted the Everstorm. Now, Jasnah had
to be strong. She had to do what was right, even when it was so, so hard.
She prepared to swing, but then Renarin turned and looked at her. Tears
streaming down his face, he met her eyes, and he nodded.
Suddenly they were young again. He was a trembling child, weeping on
her shoulder for a father who didn't seem to be able to feel love. Little
Renarin, always so solemn. Always misunderstood, laughed at and
condemned by people who said similar things about Jasnah behind her
back.
Jasnah froze, as if standing at the edge of a cliff. Wind blew through the
temple, carrying with it a pair of spren in the form of golden spheres,
bobbing in the currents.
Jasnah dismissed her sword.
"Jasnah?" Ivory said, appearing back in the form of a man, clinging to
her collar.
Jasnah fell to her knees, then pulled Renarin into an embrace. He broke
down crying, like he had as a boy, burying his head in her shoulder.
"What's wrong with me?" Renarin asked. "Why do I see these things? I
thought I was doing something right, with Glys, but somehow it's all
wrong.... "
"Hush," Jasnah whispered. "We'll find a way through it, Renarin.
Whatever it is, we'll fix it. We'll survive this, somehow."
Storms. The things he'd said about Dalinar ... 
"Jasnah," Ivory said, becoming full size as he stepped free of her collar.
He leaned down. "Jasnah, this is right. Somehow it is." He seemed
completely stunned. "It is not what makes sense, yet it is still right. How.
How is this thing?"
Renarin pulled back from her, his tearstained eyes going wide. "I saw
you kill me."
"It's all right, Renarin. I'm not going to."
"But don't you see? Don't you understand what that means?"
Jasnah shook her head.
"Jasnah," Renarin said. "My vision was wrong about you. What I see ... 
it can be wrong."
* * *
Alone.
Dalinar held a fist to his chest.
So alone.
It hurt to breathe, to think. But something stirred inside his fist. He
opened bleeding fingers.
The most ...  the most important ... 
Inside his fist, he somehow found a golden sphere. A solitary
gloryspren.
The most important step a man can take. It's not the first one, is it?
It's the next one. Always the next step, Dalinar.
Trembling, bleeding, agonized, Dalinar forced air into his lungs and
spoke a single ragged sentence.
"You cannot have my pain."
As I began my journey, I was challenged to defend why I insisted on
traveling alone. They called it irresponsible. An avoidance of duty
and obligation.
Those who said this made an enormous mistake of assumption.
- From The Way of Kings, postscript
Odium stepped back. "Dalinar? What is this?"
"You cannot have my pain."
"Dalinar- "
Dalinar forced himself to his feet. "You. Cannot. Have. My. Pain."
"Be sensible."
"I killed those children," Dalinar said.
"No, it- "
"I burned the people of Rathalas."
"I was there, influencing you- "
"YOU CANNOT HAVE MY PAIN!" Dalinar bellowed, stepping toward
Odium. The god frowned. His Fused companions shied back, and Amaram
raised a hand before his eyes and squinted.
Were those gloryspren spinning around Dalinar?
"I did kill the people of Rathalas," Dalinar shouted. "You might have
been there, but I made the choice. I decided!" He stilled. "I killed her. It
hurts so much, but I did it. I accept that. You cannot have her. You cannot
take her from me again."
"Dalinar," Odium said. "What do you hope to gain, keeping this
burden?"
Dalinar sneered at the god. "If I pretend ...  If I pretend I didn't do those
things, it means that I can't have grown to become someone else."
"A failure."
Something stirred inside of Dalinar. A warmth that he had known once
before. A warm, calming light.
Unite them.
"Journey before destination," Dalinar said. "It cannot be a journey if it
doesn't have a beginning."
A thunderclap sounded in his mind. Suddenly, awareness poured back
into him. The Stormfather, distant, feeling frightened- but also surprised.
Dalinar?
"I will take responsibility for what I have done," Dalinar whispered. "If
I must fall, I will rise each time a better man."
* * *
Renarin ran after Jasnah through the Loft Wards of the city. People
clogged the streets, but she didn't use those. She leaped off buildings,
dropping onto rooftops of the tiers below. She ran across each of these,
then leaped down to the next street.
Renarin struggled to follow, afraid of his weakness, confused by the
things he'd seen. He dropped to a rooftop, feeling sudden pain at the fall- 
though Stormlight healed that. He limped after her until the pain left.
"Jasnah!" he called. "Jasnah, I can't keep up!"
She stopped at the edge of a rooftop. He reached her, and she took his
arm. "You can keep up, Renarin. You're a Knight Radiant."
"I don't think I'm a Radiant, Jasnah. I don't know what I am."
An entire stream of gloryspren flew past them, hundreds in a sweeping
formation that curved toward the base of the city. Something was glowing
down there, a beacon in the dim light of an overcast city.
"I know what you are," Jasnah said. "You're my cousin. Family,
Renarin. Hold my hand. Run with me."
He nodded, and she towed him after her, leaping from the rooftop,
ignoring the monstrous creature that climbed up nearby. Jasnah seemed
focused on only one thing.
That light.
* * *
Unite them!
Gloryspren streamed around Dalinar. Thousands of golden spheres,
more spren than he'd ever seen in one place. They swirled around him in a
column of golden light.
Beyond it, Odium stumbled back.
So small, Dalinar thought. Has he always looked that small?
* * *
Syl looked up.
Kaladin turned to see what had drawn her attention. She looked past the
Fused who had landed to attack. She was staring toward the ocean of
beads, and the trembling lights of souls above it.
"Syl?"
She pulled him tight. "Maybe you don't have to save anyone, Kaladin.
Maybe it's time for someone to save you."
* * *
UNITE THEM!
Dalinar thrust his left hand to the side, plunging it between realms,
grabbing hold of the very fabric of existence. The world of minds, the
realm of thought.
He thrust his right hand to the other side, touching something vast,
something that wasn't a place- it was all places in one. He'd seen this
before, in the moment when Odium had let him glimpse the Spiritual
Realm.
Today, he held it in his hand.
The Fused scrambled away. Amaram pushed down his faceplate, but that
wasn't enough. He stumbled back, arm raised. Only one person remained
in place. A young parshwoman, the one that Dalinar had visited in the
visions.
"What are you?" she whispered as he stood with arms outstretched,
holding to the lands of mind and spirit.
He closed his eyes, breathing out, listening to a sudden stillness. And
within it a simple, quiet voice. A woman's voice, so familiar to him.
I forgive you.
Dalinar opened his eyes, and knew what the parshwoman saw in him.
Swirling clouds, glowing light, thunder and lightning.
"I am Unity."
He slammed both hands together.
And combined three realms into one.
* * *
Shadesmar exploded with light.
Fused screamed as a wind blasted them away, though Kaladin felt
nothing. Beads clattered and roared.
Kaladin shaded his eyes with his hand. The light faded, leaving a
brilliant, glowing pillar in the middle of the sea. Beneath it, the beads
locked together, turning into a highway of glass.
Kaladin blinked, taking Shallan's hand as she helped him to his feet.
Adolin had forced himself to sit up, holding his bloodied stomach.
"What ...  what is it?"
"Honor's Perpendicularity," Syl whispered. "A well of power that
pierces all three realms." She looked to Kaladin. "A pathway home."
* * *
Taln gripped Ash's hand.
Ash looked at his fingers, thick and callused. Thousands of years could
come and pass, and she could lose lifetimes to the dream, but those
hands ...  she'd never forget those hands.
"Ash," he said.
She looked up at him, then gasped and raised her fingers to her lips.
"How long?" he asked.
"Taln." She gripped his hand in both of hers. "I'm sorry. I'm so, so
sorry."
"How long?"
"They say it's been four millennia. I don't always ...  note the passing of
time.... "
"Four thousand years?"
She held his hand tighter. "I'm sorry. I'm sorry."
He pulled his hand from hers and stood up, walking through the tent.
She followed, apologizing again- but what good were words? They'd
betrayed him.
Taln brushed aside the front drapes and stepped out. He looked up at the
city expanding above them, at the sky, at the wall. Soldiers in breastplates
and chain rushed past to join a fight farther along.
"Four thousand years?" Taln asked again. "Ash... "
"We couldn't continue-  I ...  we thought... "
"Ash." He took her hand again. "What a wonderful thing."
Wonderful? "We left you, Taln."
"What a gift you gave them! Time to recover, for once, between
Desolations. Time to progress. They never had a chance before. But this
time ...  yes, maybe they do."
"No, Taln. You can't be like this."
"A wonderful thing indeed, Ash."
"You can't be like this, Taln. You have to hate me! Hate me, please."
He turned from her, but still held her hand, pulling her after him.
"Come. He's waiting."
"Who?" she asked.
"I don't know."
* * *
Teft gasped in the darkness.
"Can you see it, Teft?" the spren whispered. "Can you feel the Words?"
"I'm broken."
"Who isn't? Life breaks us, Teft. Then we fill the cracks with something
stronger."
"I make myself sick."
"Teft," she said, a glowing apparition in the darkness, "that's what the
Words are about."
Oh, Kelek. The shouts. Fighting. His friends.
"I... "
Storm you! Be a man for once in your life!
Teft licked his lips, and spoke.
"I will protect those I hate. Even ...  even if the one I hate most ...  is ... 
myself."
* * *
Renarin fell to the last level of the city, the Low Ward. He stumbled to a
stop there, his hand slipping from Jasnah's. Soldiers marched through
these streets, with eyes like embers.
"Jasnah!" he called. "Amaram's soldiers changed sides. They serve
Odium now! I saw it in vision!"
She ran right toward them.
"Jasnah!"
The first soldier swung his sword at her. Jasnah ducked the weapon, then
shoved her hand against him, throwing him backward. He crystallized in
the air, slamming into the next man, who caught the transformation like a
disease. He slammed into another man, knocking him back, as if the full
force of Jasnah's shove had transferred to him. He crystallized a moment
later.
Jasnah spun, a Shardblade forming in her gloved safehand, her skirt
rippling as she sliced through six men in one sweep. The sword vanished
as she slapped her hand into the wall of a building behind her, and that
wall puffed away into smoke, causing the roof to crash down, blocking the
alley between buildings, where other soldiers had been approaching.
She swept her hand upward, and air coalesced into stone, forming steps
that she took- barely breaking her stride- to climb to the rooftop of the
next building.
Renarin gaped. That-  How- 
It will be ...  great ...  vast ...  wonderful! Glys said from within Renarin's
heart. It will be beautiful, Renarin! Look!
A well blossomed inside of him. Power like he'd never before felt, an
awesome, overwhelming strength. Stormlight unending. A source of it so
vast, he was stunned.
"Jasnah?" he shouted, then belatedly ran up the steps she'd created,
feeling so alive that he wanted to dance. Wouldn't that be a sight? Renarin
Kholin dancing on a rooftop while ... 
He slowed, gaping again as he looked through a gap in the wall and saw
a column of light. Rising higher and higher, it stretched toward the clouds.
* * *
Fen and her consort backed away from the storm of light.
Navani exulted in it. She leaned out far over the side of the wall,
laughing like a fool. Gloryspren streamed around her, brushing her hair,
flowing toward the already impossible number that coursed around
Dalinar in a pillar that stretched hundreds of feet into the air.
Then lights sparked to life in a wave across the field, the top of the wall,
the street below. Gemstones that had been lying ignored, scattered from
the broken bank, drank in Stormlight from Dalinar. They lit the ground
with a thousand pinpricks of color.
* * *
"No!" Odium screamed. He stepped forward. "No, we killed you. WE
KILLED YOU!"
Dalinar stood within a pillar of light and spinning gloryspren, one hand
to each side, clutching the realms that made up reality.
Forgiven. The pain he'd so recently insisted that he would keep started
to fade away on its own.
These Words ...  are accepted, the Stormfather said, sounding stunned.
How? What have you done?
Odium stumbled back. "Kill him! Attack him!"
The parshwoman didn't move, but Amaram lethargically lowered his
hand from his face, then stepped forward, summoning his Shardblade.
Dalinar took his hand from the glowing pillar and held it out. "You can
change," he said. "You can become a better person. I did. Journey before
destination."
"No," Amaram said. "No, he'll never forgive me."
"The bridgeman?"
"Not him." Amaram tapped his chest. "Him. I'm sorry, Dalinar."
He raised a familiar Shardblade. Dalinar's Shardblade, Oathbringer.
Passed from tyrant to tyrant to tyrant.
A portion of light split from Dalinar's column.
Amaram swung Oathbringer with a shout, but the light met the
Shardblade with an explosion of sparks, throwing Amaram backward- as
if the strength of Shardplate were no more than that of a child. The light
resolved into a man with shoulder-length wavy hair, a blue uniform, and a
silvery spear in his hand.
A second glowing form split off into Shallan Davar, brilliant red hair
streaming behind her, a long thin Shardblade with a slight curve forming
in her hands.
And then, blessedly, Adolin appeared.
* * *
"Mistress!" Wyndle said. "Oh, mistress!"
For once, Lift didn't have the will to tell him to shut up. She focused
everything on those tendrils creeping up her arms, like deep, dark vines.
The assassin lay on the ground, staring upward, practically covered in
those vines. Lift held them at bay, teeth gritted. Her will against the
darkness until ... 
Light.
Like a sudden detonation, a force of light flashed across the field.
Gemstones on the ground flared up, capturing Stormlight, and the assassin
screamed, drawing in Light like glowing mist.
The vines shriveled, as the sword's thirst was slaked by the Stormlight.
Lift fell back on the stone and pried her hands off Szeth's head.
I knew I liked you, a voice said in Lift's mind.
The sword. So it was a spren? "You almost ate him," Lift said. "You
almost starvin' ate me!"
Oh, I wouldn't do that, the voice said. She seemed completely baffled,
voice growing slow, like she was drowsy. But ...  maybe I was just really,
really hungry.... 
Well, Lift supposed she couldn't blame someone for that.
The assassin climbed unsteadily to his feet. His face was crisscrossed
with lines where the vines had been. That somehow left his skin grey in
streaks, the color of stone. Lift's arms bore the same. Huh.
Szeth walked toward the glowing column of light, leaving an afterimage
behind him. "Come," he said.
* * *
Elhokar? Dalinar thought. But no one else came through the column of
light. And he knew. Knew, somehow, that the king was not coming.
He closed his eyes, and accepted that grief. He had failed the king in
many ways.
Stand up, he thought. And do better.
He opened his eyes, and slowly his column of gloryspren faded. The
power within him withdrew, leaving him exhausted. Fortunately, the field
was covered in glittering gemstones. Stormlight in plenty.
A direct conduit to the Spiritual Realm, the Stormfather said. You renew
spheres, Dalinar?
"We are Connected."
I was bonded to men before. This never happened then.
"Honor was alive then. We are something different. His remnants, your
soul, my will."
Kaladin Stormblessed stepped up beside Dalinar before the rubble of the
wall, and Shallan Davar stood on the other side. Jasnah emerged from the
city and surveyed the scene with a critical air, while Renarin popped out
behind her, then cried out and ran for Adolin. He grabbed his older brother
in an embrace, then gasped. Adolin was wounded?
Good lad, Dalinar thought as Renarin immediately set to healing his
brother.
Two more people crossed the battlefield. Lift he had anticipated. But the
assassin? Szeth scooped the silvery sheath off the ground and slammed his
black Shardblade into it, before stepping up to join Dalinar.
Skybreaker, Dalinar thought, counting them off. Edgedancer. That was
seven.
He would have expected three more.
There, the Stormfather said. Behind your niece.
Two more people appeared in the shadow of the wall. A large, powerful
man with an impressive physique, and a woman with long, dark hair. Their
dark skin marked them as Makabaki, perhaps Azish, but their eyes were
wrong.
I know them, the Stormfather said, sounding surprised. I know them from
long, long ago. Memories of days when I did not fully live.
Dalinar, you are in the presence of divinities.
"I've grown accustomed to it," Dalinar said, turning back toward the
field. Odium had retreated into nothingness, though his Fused remained, as
did most of the troops, and one strange spren- the one like black smoke.
Beyond it, of course, the Thrill still encompassed the north side of the
landing, near the water.
Amaram had ten thousand men, and maybe half of those had made it
into the city so far. They had wilted before Dalinar's display, but now ... 
Wait.
Those two only make nine, he thought to the Stormfather. Something
told him there should be one more.
I don't know. Perhaps they haven't been found yet. Regardless, even with
the bond you are just one man. Radiants are not immortal. How do you
face this army?
"Dalinar?" Kaladin said. "Orders, sir?"
The enemy ranks were recovering. They lifted weapons, eyes glowing
deep red. Amaram stirred as well, some twenty feet away. The Thrill had
Dalinar most worried, however. He knew what it could do.
He glanced down at his arm, and noticed something. The lightning that
had struck him earlier, shredding The Way of Kings, had broken his arm
fabrial. The clasp was undone, and Dalinar could see the tiny gemstones
Navani had placed to power it.
"Sir?" Kaladin asked again.
"The enemy is trying to crush this city, Captain," Dalinar said, lowering
his arm. "We're going to hold it against his forces."
"Seven Radiants?" Jasnah said, skeptical. "Uncle, that seems a tall
order, even if one of us is- apparently- the storming Assassin in White."
"I serve Dalinar Kholin," Szeth-son-son-Vallano whispered. His face,
for some reason, was streaked with grey. "I cannot know truth, so I follow
one who does."
"Whatever we do," Shallan said, "we should do it quickly. Before those
soldiers- "
"Renarin!" Dalinar barked.
"Sir!" Renarin said, scrambling forward.
"We need to hold out until troops arrive from Urithiru. Fen doesn't have
the numbers to fight alone. Get to the Oathgate, stop that thunderclast up
there from destroying it, and open the portal."
"Sir!" Renarin saluted.
"Shallan, we don't have an army yet," Dalinar said. "Lightweave one up
for us, and keep these soldiers busy. They're consumed by a bloodlust that
I suspect will make them easier to distract. Jasnah, the city we're
defending happens to have a big storming hole in its wall. Can you hold
that hole and stop anyone who tries to get through?"
She nodded, thoughtful.
"What about me?" Kaladin asked.
Dalinar pointed at Amaram, who was climbing to his feet in his
Shardplate. "He's going to try to kill me for what I do next, and I could use
a bodyguard. As I recall, you have a score to settle with the highlord."
"You could say that."
"Lift, I believe I already gave you an order. Take the assassin and get me
that ruby. Together, we hold this city until Renarin returns with troops.
Any questions?"
"Um... " Lift said. "Could you maybe ...  tell me where to get something
to eat... ?"
Dalinar glanced at her. Something to eat? "There ...  should be a supply
dump just inside the wall."
"Thanks!"
Dalinar sighed, then started walking toward the water.
"Sir!" Kaladin called. "Where are you going?"
"The enemy brought a very big stick to this battle, Captain. I'm going to
take it away."
If the journey itself is indeed the most important piece, rather than
the destination itself, then I traveled not to avoid duty- but to seek it.
- From The Way of Kings, postscript
Kaladin rose into the sky, alive with Stormlight.
Below him, Dalinar walked toward the red mist. Though tendrils of it
moved among the soldiers of Amaram's army, the bulk of it swirled closer
to the coast, to the right of the bay and the destroyed docks.
Storms, Kaladin felt good to be in the real world again. Even with the
Everstorm dominating the sun, this place felt so much more bright than
Shadesmar. A group of windspren dodged around him, though the air was
relatively still. Perhaps they were the ones who had come to him on the
other side, the ones he had failed.
Kaladin, Syl said. You don't need another reason to berate yourself.
She was right. Storms, he could be down on himself sometimes. Was
that the flaw that had prevented him from speaking the Words of the
Fourth Ideal?
For some reason, Syl sighed. Oh, Kaladin.
"We'll talk about it later," he said.
For now, he'd been given a second chance to protect Dalinar Kholin.
Stormlight raging inside of him, the Sylspear a comfortable weight in his
hand, he Lashed himself downward and crashed to the stones near
Amaram.
The highlord, in turn, fell to his knees.
What? Kaladin thought. Amaram was coughing. He tipped his head
back, faceplate up, and groaned.
Had he just swallowed something?
* * *
Adolin prodded at his stomach. Beneath the bloodstained rip, he felt only
smooth, new skin. Not even a hint of an ache.
For a time, he'd been sure he would die.
He'd been there before. Months ago, he'd felt it when Sadeas had
withdrawn, leaving the Kholin troops alone and surrounded on the
Shattered Plains. This had been different. Staring up at that black sky and
those unnatural clouds, feeling suddenly, appallingly fragile ... 
And then light. His father- the great man Adolin could never match- 
somehow embodying the Almighty himself. Adolin couldn't help feeling
that he hadn't been worthy to step into that light.
Here he was anyway.
The Radiants broke apart to do Dalinar's bidding, though Shallan knelt
to check on Adolin. "How do you feel?"
"Do you realize how fond I was of this jacket?"
"Oh, Adolin."
"Really, Shallan. Surgeons should take more care with the clothing they
cut open. If a man's going to live, he'll want that shirt. And if he dies ... 
well, he should at least be well dressed on his deathbed."
She smiled, then glanced over her shoulder toward the troops with red
eyes.
"Go," he said. "I'll be fine. Save the city. Be Radiant, Shallan."
She kissed him, then turned and stood. That white clothing seemed to
glow, the red hair a striking swatch, as Stormlight rose from her. Pattern
appeared as a Shardblade with a faint, almost invisible latticework running
up the length. She wove her power, and an army climbed from the ground
around her.
In Urithiru, she'd made an army of a score to distract the Unmade. Now,
hundreds of illusions rose around her: soldiers, shopkeepers, washwomen,
scribes, all drawn from her pages. They glowed brilliantly, Light streaming
from them- as if each were a Knight Radiant.
Adolin climbed to his feet, and came face-to-face with an illusion of
himself wearing a Kholin uniform. The illusory Adolin glowed with
Stormlight and floated a few inches off the ground. She'd made him a
Windrunner.
I ...  I can't take that. He turned toward the city. His father had been
focused on the Radiants, and had neglected to give Adolin a specific duty.
So maybe he could help the defenders inside.
Adolin picked his way across the rubble and through the broken wall.
Jasnah stood right inside, hands on hips, as if she were surveying a mess
left by rampaging children. The gap opened into an unremarkable city
square dominated by barracks and storehouses. Fallen troops wearing
either Thaylen or Sadeas uniforms indicated a recent clash here, but most
of the enemy seemed to have moved on. Shouts and clangs sounded from
nearby streets.
Adolin reached for a discarded sword, then paused, and- feeling a fool
- summoned his Shardblade. He braced himself for a scream, but none
came, and the Blade fell into his hand after ten heartbeats.
"I'm sorry," he said, lifting the glistening weapon. "And thank you."
He headed toward one of the nearby clashes, where men were shouting
for help.
* * *
Szeth of the Skybreakers envied Kaladin, the one they called
Stormblessed, in the honor of protecting Dalinar Kholin. But of course, he
would not complain. He had chosen his oath.
And he would do as his master demanded.
Phantoms appeared, created from Stormlight by the woman with the red
hair. These were the shadows in the darkness, the ones he heard whispering
of his murders. How she brought them to life, he did not know. He landed
near the Reshi Surgebinder, Lift.
"So," she said to him. "How do we find that ruby?"
Szeth pointed with his sheathed Shardblade toward the ships docked in
the bay. "The creature carrying it ran back that way." The parshmen still
clustered there, deep within the shadow of the Everstorm.
"Figures," Lift said, then glanced at him. "You aren't gonna try to eat
me again, right?"
Don't be silly, said the sword in Szeth's hand. You aren't evil. You're
nice. And I don't eat people.
"I will not draw the sword," Szeth said, "unless you are already dead
and I decide to accept death myself."
"Greaaaaaaaaaaat," Lift said.
You're supposed to contradict me, Szeth, the sword said, when I say I
don't eat people. Vasher always did. I think he was joking. Anyway, as
people who have carried me go, you aren't very good at this.
"No," Szeth said. "I am not good at being a person. It is ...  a failing of
mine."
It's all right! Be happy. Looks like there's a lot of evil to slay today!
That's greaaaaaaaaaaat, right?
Then the sword started humming.
* * *
The brands on Kaladin's head seemed a fresh pain as he dove to strike
Amaram. But Amaram recovered quickly from his fit, then slammed his
faceplate down. He rebuffed Kaladin's attack with an armored forearm.
Those red eyes cast a crimson glow through the helm's slit. "You should
thank me, boy."
"Thank you?" Kaladin said. "For what? For showing me that a person
could be even more loathsome than the petty lighteyes who ruled my
hometown?"
"I created you, spearman. I forged you." Amaram pointed at Kaladin
with the wide, hook-ended Shardblade. Then he extended his left hand,
summoning a second Blade. Long and curved, the back edge rippled like
flowing waves.
Kaladin knew that Blade well. He'd won it- saving Amaram's life- 
then refused to bear it. For when he looked at his reflection in the silvery
metal, all he could see were the friends it had killed. So much death and
pain, caused by that rippling Blade.
It seemed a symbol of all he'd lost, particularly held now in the hand of
the man who had lied to him. The man who had taken Tien away.
Amaram presented a sword stance, holding two Blades. One taken in
bloodshed, at the cost of Kaladin's crew. The other, Oathbringer. A sword
given to ransom Bridge Four.
Don't be intimidated! Syl whispered in Kaladin's mind. History
notwithstanding, he's only a man. And you're a Knight Radiant.
The vambrace of Amaram's armor pulsed suddenly on his forearm, as if
something were pushing it from beneath. The red glow from the helm
deepened, and Kaladin got the distinct impression of something
enveloping Amaram.
A black smoke. The same that Kaladin had seen surrounding Queen
Aesudan at the end, as they'd fled the palace. Other sections of Amaram's
armor began to rattle or pulse, and he suddenly moved with a violent burst
of speed, swinging with one Shardblade, then the other.
* * *
Dalinar slowed as he approached the main core of the Thrill. The red mist
churned and boiled here, nearly solid. He saw familiar faces reflected in it.
He watched the old highprince Kalanor fall from the heights of a rock
formation. He saw himself fight alone on a field of stone after a rockslide.
He watched as he caught the claw of a chasmfiend on the Shattered Plains.
He could hear the Thrill. A thrumming, insistent, warming pulse.
Almost like the beating of a drum.
"Hello, old friend," Dalinar whispered, then stepped into the red mist.
* * *
Shallan stood with arms outstretched. Stormlight expanded from her on
the ground, a pool of liquid light, radiant mist swirling above it. It became
a gateway. From it, her collection emerged.
Every person she'd ever sketched- from the maids in her father's house
to the honorspren who had held Syl captive- grew from Stormlight. Men
and women, children and grandparents. Soldiers and scribes. Mothers and
scouts, kings and slaves.
Mmm, Pattern said as a sword in her hand. MMMMMMM.
"I've lost these," Shallan said as Yalb the sailor climbed from the mist
and waved to her. He drew a glowing Shardspear from the air. "I lost these
pictures!"
You are close to them, Pattern said. Close to the realm of thought ...  and
beyond. All the people you've Connected to, over the years ... 
Her brothers emerged. She'd buried worries about them in the back of
her mind. Held by the Ghostbloods ...  No word from any spanreed she
tried ... 
Her father stepped from the Light. And her mother.
The illusions immediately started to fail, melting back to Light. Then,
someone seized her by the left hand.
Shallan gasped. Forming from mist was ...  was Veil? With long straight
black hair, white clothing, brown eyes. Wiser than Shallan- and more
focused. Capable of working on small pieces when Shallan grew
overwhelmed by the large scale of her work.
Another hand took Shallan's on the right. Radiant, in glowing garnet
Shardplate, tall, with braided hair. Reserved and cautious. She nodded to
Shallan with a steady, determined look.
Others boiled at Shallan's feet, trying to crawl from the Stormlight,
their glowing hands grabbing at her legs.
"...  No," Shallan whispered.
This was enough. She had created Veil and Radiant to be strong when
she was weak. She squeezed their hands tight, then hissed out slowly. The
other versions of Shallan retreated into the Stormlight.
Then, farther out, figures by the hundred surged from the ground and
raised weapons at the enemy.
* * *
Adolin, now accompanied by some two dozen soldiers, charged through
the streets of the Low Ward.
"There!" one of his men shouted with a thick Thaylen accent.
"Brightlord!" He pointed toward a group of enemy soldiers disappearing
down an alley back toward the wall.
"Damnation," Adolin said, waving his troops to follow as he gave chase.
Jasnah was alone in that direction, trying to hold the gap. He charged down
the alleyway to- 
A soldier with red eyes suddenly hurtled through the air overhead.
Adolin ducked, worried about Fused, but it was an ordinary soldier. The
unfortunate man crashed into a rooftop. What on Roshar?
As they approached the end of the alleyway, another body smashed into
the wall right by the opening. Gripping his Shardblade, Adolin peeked
around the corner, expecting to find another stone monster like the one
that had climbed into the Ancient Ward.
Instead, he found only Jasnah Kholin, looking completely nonplussed. A
glow faded around her, different from the smoke of her Stormlight. Like
geometric shapes outlining her ... 
All right then. Jasnah didn't need help. Adolin instead waved for his
men to follow the sounds of battle to the right. There they found a small
group of beleaguered Thaylen soldiers backed up against the base of the
wall, facing a much larger force of men in green uniforms.
Well. This Adolin could fix.
He waved his own soldiers back, then charged the enemy in
Smokestance, sweeping with his Shardblade. The enemy had packed in
close to try to get at their prey, and had a hard time adjusting to the
miniature storm that crashed into them from behind.
Adolin stepped through the sequence of swipes, feeling immense
satisfaction at finally being able to do something. The Thaylens let out a
cheer as he dropped the last group of enemies, red eyes going black as they
burned out. His satisfaction lasted until, glancing down at the corpses, he
was struck by how human they looked.
He'd spent years fighting Parshendi. He didn't think he'd actually killed
another Alethi since ...  well, he couldn't remember.
Sadeas. Don't forget Sadeas.
Fifty men dead at his feet, and some three dozen killed while gathering
his other troops. Storms ...  after feeling so useless in Shadesmar, now this.
How much of his reputation was him, and how much of it was- and had
always been- the sword?
"Prince Adolin?" a voice called in Alethi. "Your Highness!"
"Kdralk?" Adolin said as a figure emerged from the Thaylens. The
queen's son had seen better days. His eyebrows were bloodied from a cut
across his forehead. His uniform was torn, and there was a bandage on his
upper arm.
"My mother and father," Kdralk said. "They're trapped on the wall a
little farther down. We were pushing to reach them, but we got cornered."
"Right. Let's move, then."
* * *
Jasnah stepped over a corpse. Her Blade vanished in a puff of Stormlight,
and Ivory appeared next to her, his oily black features concerned as he
regarded the sky. "This place is three, still," he said. "Almost three."
"Or three places are nearly one," Jasnah replied. Another batch of
gloryspren flocked past, and she could see them as they were in the
Cognitive Realm: like strange avians with long wings, and a golden sphere
in place of the head. Well, being able to see into the Cognitive Realm
without trying was one of the least unnerving things that had happened so
far today.
An incredible amount of Stormlight thrummed inside her- more than
she'd ever held before. Another group of soldiers broke through Shallan's
illusions and charged over the rubble through the gap in the wall. Jasnah
casually flipped her hand toward them. Once, their souls would have
resisted mightily. Soulcasting living things was difficult; it usually
required care and concentration- along with proper knowledge and
procedure.
Today, the men puffed away to smoke at her barest thought. It was so
easy that a part of her was horrified.
She felt invincible, which was a danger in itself. The human body
wasn't meant to be stuffed this full of Stormlight. It rose from her like
smoke from a bonfire. Dalinar had closed his perpendicularity, however.
He had been the storm, and had somehow recharged the spheres- but like
a storm, his effects were passing.
"Three worlds," Ivory said. "Slowly splitting apart again, but for now,
three realms are close."
"Then let's make use of it before it fades, shall we?"
She stepped up before the rent portion of the wall, a gap as wide as a
small city block.
Then raised her hands.
* * *
Szeth of the Skybreakers led the way toward the parshman army, the child
Edgedancer following.
Szeth feared not pain, as no physical agony could rival the pain he
already bore. He feared not death. That sweet reward had already been
snatched from him. He feared only that he had made the wrong choice.
Szeth expunged that fear. Nin was correct. Life could not be lived
making decisions at each juncture.
The parshmen standing on the shore of the bay did not have glowing
eyes. They looked much like the Parshendi who had used him to
assassinate King Gavilar. When he drew close, several of them ran off and
boarded one of the ships.
"There," he said. "I suspect they are going to warn the one we seek."
"I'm after it, crazyface," Lift said. "Sword, don't eat anyone unless they
try to eat you first." She zipped off in her silly way- kneeling and
slapping her hands on the ground. She slid among the parshmen. When she
reached the ship, she somehow scrambled up its side, then squeezed
through a tiny porthole.
The parshmen here didn't seem aggressive. They shied away from
Szeth, murmuring among themselves. Szeth glanced at the sky and picked
out Nin- as a speck- still watching. Szeth could not fault the Herald's
decision; the law of these creatures was now the law of the land.
But ...  that law was the product of the many. Szeth had been exiled
because of the consensus of the many. He had served master after master,
most of them using him to attain terrible or at least selfish goals. You
could not arrive at excellence by the average of these people. Excellence
was an individual quest, not a group effort.
A flying Parshendi- "Fused" was a term Lift had used for them- shot
out of the ship, carrying the large dun ruby that Dalinar sought. Lift
followed the Fused out, but couldn't fly. She clambered up onto the prow
of the ship, releasing a loud string of curses.
Wow, the sword said. That's impressive vocabulary for a child. Does she
even know what that last one means?
Szeth Lashed himself into the air after the Fused.
If she does know what it means, the sword added, do you think she'd tell
me?
The enemy swooped down low across the battlefield, and Szeth
followed, a mere inch above the rocks. They soon passed among the
fighting illusions. Some of these appeared as enemy soldiers, to further
add confusion. A clever move. The enemy would be less likely to retreat if
they thought most of their companions were still fighting, and it made the
battle look far more real. Except that when Szeth's quarry zipped past, her
fluttering robes struck and disturbed illusory shapes.
Szeth followed close, passing through a pair of fighting men he had seen
were illusions. This Fused was talented, better than the Skybreakers had
been, though Szeth had not faced their best.
The chase took him in a long loop, eventually swinging back down near
where Dalinar was walking through the edge of the red mist. The
whispered voices grew louder, and Szeth put his hands to his ears as he
flew.
The Fused was smooth and graceful, but sped up and slowed less
quickly than Szeth did. He took advantage of this, anticipating the enemy's
move, then cutting to the side as they turned. Szeth collided with the
enemy, and they twisted in the air. The Fused- gemstone in one hand- 
stabbed Szeth with a wicked knife.
Fortunately, with Stormlight, that didn't do anything but cause pain.
Szeth Lashed them both downward, holding tight, and sent them
crashing to the stone. The gemstone rolled free as the Fused groaned.
Szeth Lashed himself gracefully to his feet, then slipped along the stone at
a standing glide. He scooped up the ruby with his free hand, the one not
carrying his sheathed sword.
Wow, the sword said.
"Thank you, sword-nimi," Szeth said. He restored his Stormlight from
nearby fallen spheres and gemstones.
I meant that. To your right.
Three more Fused were swooping down toward him. He appeared to
have gotten the enemy's attention.
* * *
Adolin and his men reached a covered stairwell leading up onto the wall.
Aunt Navani waved from up above, then gestured urgently. Adolin hurried
inside the stairwell, and at the top found a jumble of Sadeas troops
chopping at the door with hand axes.
"I can probably get through that a little easier," Adolin said from behind
them.
A short time later, he stepped onto the wall walk, leaving five more
corpses on the steps. These didn't make him feel quite so melancholy.
They'd been minutes from reaching Aunt Navani.
Navani hugged him. "Elhokar?" she asked, tense.
Adolin shook his head. "I'm sorry."
She pulled him tight, and he dismissed his Blade, holding her as she
shook, letting out quiet tears. Storms ...  he knew how that felt. He hadn't
really been able to take time to think since Elhokar's death. He'd felt the
oppressive hand of responsibility, but had he grieved for his cousin?
He pulled his aunt tighter, feeling her pain, mirror to his own. The stone
monster crashed through the city, and soldiers shouted from all around- 
but in that moment, Adolin did what he could to comfort a mother who
had lost her son.
Finally they broke, Navani drying her eyes with a handkerchief. She
gasped as she saw his bloodied side.
"I'm fine," he explained. "Renarin healed me."
"I saw your betrothed and the bridgeman down below," Navani said. "So
everyone ...  everyone but him?"
"I'm sorry, Aunt. I just ...  We failed him. Elhokar and Kholinar both."
She blotted her eyes and stiffened with determination. "Come. Our
focus now has to be on keeping this city from suffering the same fate."
They joined Queen Fen, who was surveying the battle from atop the
wall. "Estnatil was on the wall with us when that thing hit," she was saying
to her son. "He got thrown down and likely died, but there's a Shardblade
in that rubble somewhere. I haven't seen Tshadr. Perhaps at his manor? I
wouldn't be surprised to find him gathering troops at the upper tiers."
Counting Shardbearers. Thaylenah had three sets of Plate and five
Blades- a solid number of Shards for a kingdom of this size. Eight houses
passed them down, father to son, each of whom served the throne as a
highguard.
Adolin glanced over the city, assessing the defense. Fighting in city
streets was difficult; your men got divided up, and were easily flanked or
surrounded. Fortunately, the Sadeas troops seemed to have forgotten their
battle training. They didn't hold ground well; they had broken into roving
bands, like axehound packs, loping through the city and looking for
contests.
"You need to join your troops," Adolin said to the Thaylens. "Block off
a street below, coordinate a resistance. Then- "
A sudden whooshing sound cut him off.
He stumbled back as the wall shook, then the broken gap in it mended.
Metal grew like crystals to fill the hole, springing into existence out of a
tempest of rushing, howling air.
The end result was a beautiful, brilliant section of polished bronze
melding with the stonework and completely sealing the gap.
"Taln's palms," Fen said. She and her consort stepped closer to the edge
and looked down at Jasnah, who dusted off her hands, then rested them on
her hips in a satisfied posture.
"So ...  change of tactics," Adolin said. "With the gap filled, you can get
archers in position to harry the army outside and hold the inside square.
Set up a command position here, clear the street below, and then hold this
wall at all costs."
Below, Jasnah strode away from the marvel she'd created, then knelt
beside some rubble and cocked her head, listening to something. She
pressed her hand against the rubble and it vanished into smoke, revealing a
corpse beneath- and a brilliant Shardblade beside it.
"Kdralk," Adolin said, "how are your Shardblade stances?"
"I ...  I've practiced with them, like other officers, and- I mean- "
"Great. Take ten soldiers, go get that Blade, then rescue that cluster of
troops over there at the base of the Ancient Ward. Next try to rescue that
other group fighting on the steps. Station every archer you can up here on
the wall, and put the rest of the soldiers to work guarding the streets."
Adolin glanced over his shoulder. Shallan's distraction was working well,
for now. "Don't stretch too far, but as you rescue more men, make a
coordinated effort to hold the entire Low Ward."
"But Prince Adolin," Fen said, "what will you be doing?"
Adolin summoned his Blade and pointed with it toward the back of the
Ancient Ward, where the gigantic stone monstrosity swept a group of
soldiers from a rooftop. Others tried- in futility- to trip it with ropes.
"Those men seem like they could use the help of a weapon designed
specifically to cut through stone."
* * *
Amaram fought with striking fury- a frenetic kind of harmony, an
unending assault of weaving Shardblades and beautiful stances. Kaladin
blocked one Blade with the Sylspear, and they locked for a moment.
A sharp violet crystal burst out of Amaram's elbow, cracking the
Shardplate there, glowing with a soft inner light. Storms! Kaladin flung
himself backward as Amaram swung his other Blade, nearly connecting.
Kaladin danced away. His training with the sword had been short, and
he'd never seen anyone use two Blades at once. He would have considered
it unwieldy. Amaram made it look elegant, mesmerizing.
That deep red glow within Amaram's helm grew darker, bloody,
somehow even more sinister. Kaladin blocked another hit, but the power of
the blow sent him skidding backward on the stone. He'd made himself
lighter for the fight, but that had repercussions when facing someone in
Plate.
Puffing, Kaladin launched himself into the air to get some distance.
That Plate prevented him from using Lashings against Amaram, and it
blocked hits from the Sylspear. Yet, if Amaram landed a single strike, that
would immobilize Kaladin. Healing the wound from a Shardblade was
possible, but was slow and left him horribly weakened.
This was all complicated by the fact that, while Amaram could focus
only on their duel, Kaladin had to keep watching Dalinar in case- 
Damnation!
Kaladin Lashed himself to the side, streaking through the air to engage
one of the Fused who had started hovering near Dalinar. She struck toward
Kaladin- but that only let him change Syl to a Blade midswing, and cut
her long spear in half. She hummed an angry song and floated backward,
sliding her sword from its sheath. Below, Dalinar was a mere shadow
against the shifting crimson cloud. Faces emerged within, screaming with
rage, fury, bloodlust- like the billowing front of a thunderhead.
Being near the mist made Kaladin feel nauseous. Fortunately, the enemy
didn't seem eager to enter it either. They hovered outside, watching
Dalinar. A few had ducked in closer, but Kaladin had managed to drive
them back.
He pressed his advantage against his current foe, using Syl as a spear.
The Fused was nimble, but Kaladin was flush with Stormlight. The field
below was still littered with a fortune in glowing spheres.
After he got in close with a strike- cutting the Fused's robes- she
zipped away to join a group that was focusing on Szeth. Hopefully the
assassin could stay ahead of them.
Now, where had Amaram gotten to....  Kaladin glanced over his
shoulder, then yelped and Lashed himself backward, Stormlight puffing
before him. A thick black arrow shot right through that, dispersing the
Light.
Amaram stood near his horse, where he'd unhooked a massive
Shardbow that used arrows as thick as a spear's haft. Amaram raised it to
loose again, and a line of crystals jutted out along his arm, cracking his
Shardplate. Storms, what was happening to that man?
Kaladin zipped out of the way of the arrow. He could heal from a hit like
that, but it would distract him- potentially let some of the Fused seize
him. All the Stormlight in the world wouldn't save him if they simply
bound him, then hacked at him until he stopped healing.
Amaram launched another arrow, and Kaladin blocked it with Syl, who
became a shield in his grip. Then, Kaladin Lashed himself into a dive,
summoning Syl as a lance. He swooped down on Amaram, who hooked his
Shardbow back onto the horse's saddle and dodged to the side, moving
with incredible speed.
Amaram grabbed the Syllance as Kaladin dove past, flinging Kaladin to
the side. Kaladin was forced to dismiss Syl and slow himself, spinning and
sliding across the ground until his Lashing ran out and he settled down.
Teeth gritted, Kaladin summoned Syl as a short spear, then rushed
Amaram- determined to bring the highlord down before the Fused
returned to attack Dalinar.
* * *
The Thrill was happy to see Dalinar.
He had imagined it as some evil force, malignant and insidious, like
Odium or Sadeas. How wrong he was.
Dalinar walked through the mist, and each step was a battle he relived.
Wars from his youth, to secure Alethkar. Wars during his middle years, to
preserve his reputation- and to sate his lust for the fight. And ...  he saw
times when the Thrill withdrew. Like when Dalinar had held Adolin for the
first time. Or when he'd grinned with Elhokar atop a rocky spire on the
Shattered Plains.
The Thrill regarded these events with a sad sense of abandonment and
confusion. The Thrill didn't hate. Though some spren could make
decisions, others were like animals- primal, driven by a single
overpowering directive. Live. Burn. Laugh.
Or in this case, fight.
* * *
Jasnah existed halfway in the Cognitive Realm, which made everything a
blurry maze of shadows, floating souls of light, and beads of glass. A
thousand varieties of spren churned and climbed over one another in
Shadesmar's ocean. Most did not manifest in the physical world.
She willed steps to Soulcast beneath her feet. Individual axi of air lined
up and packed next to each other, then Soulcast into stone- though in
spite of the realms being linked, this was difficult. Air was amorphous,
even in concept. People thought of it as the sky, or a breath, or a gust of
wind, or a storm, or just "the air." It liked to be free, difficult to define.
Yet, with a firm command and a concept of what she wanted, Jasnah
made steps form beneath her feet. She reached the top of the wall and
found her mother there with Queen Fen and some soldiers. They had made
a command station at one of the old guard posts. Soldiers huddled outside
with pikes pointed toward two Fused in the sky.
Bother. Jasnah strode along the wall, taking in the melee of illusions and
men outside. Shallan stood at the back; most of the spheres around her had
been drained already. She was burning through Stormlight at a terrible
rate.
"Bad?" she asked Ivory.
"It is," he said from her collar. "It is."
"Mother," Jasnah called, approaching where Fen and Navani stood by
the guard post. "You need to rally the troops within the city and clear the
enemy inside."
"We're working on it," Navani said. "But-  Jasnah! In the air- "
Jasnah raised an absent hand without looking, forming a wall of black
pitch. A Fused crashed through it, and Jasnah Soulcast a flick of fire,
sending the thing screaming and flailing, burning with a terrible smoke.
Jasnah Soulcast the rest of the pitch on the wall to smoke, then
continued forward. "We must take advantage of Radiant Shallan's
distraction and cleanse Thaylen City. Otherwise, when the assault comes
from outside once more, our attention will be divided."
"From outside?" Fen said. "But we have the wall fixed, and-  Storms!
Brightness!"
Jasnah stepped aside without looking as the second Fused swooped
down- the reactions of spren in Shadesmar allowed her to judge where it
was. She turned and swung her hand at the creature. Ivory formed and
sliced through the Fused's head as it passed, sending it curling about itself
- eyes burning- and tumbling along the wall top.
"The enemy," Jasnah said, "will not be stopped by a wall, and
Brightness Shallan has feasted upon almost all of the spheres Uncle
Dalinar recharged. My Stormlight is nearly gone. We have to be ready to
hold this position through conventional means once the power is gone."
"Surely there aren't enough enemy troops to... " Fen's consort said, but
trailed off as Jasnah pointed with Ivory- who obligingly formed again- 
toward the waiting parshman armies. Neither the hovering red haze nor the
breaking lightning of the storm was enough to drown out the red glows
beginning to appear in the parshmen's eyes.
"We must be ready to hold this wall as long as it takes for troops to
arrive from Urithiru," Jasnah said. "Where is Renarin? Wasn't he to deal
with that thunderclast?"
"One of my soldiers reported seeing him," Fen said. "He had been
slowed by the crowds. Prince Adolin expressed an intention to go help."
"Excellent. I will trust that task to my cousins, and instead see what I
can do to keep my ward from getting herself killed."
* * *
Szeth wove and dodged between the attacks of five enemy Fused, carrying
the large dun ruby in his left hand, the sheathed black sword in his right.
He tried to approach Dalinar in the red mist, but the enemy cut him off,
and he was forced to turn east.
He skimmed the now-repaired wall and crossed over the city, eventually
soaring past the monster of stone. It flung several soldiers into the air, and
for a moment they soared with Szeth.
Szeth Lashed himself downward, diving for the city streets. Behind him,
Fused broke around the monster and swarmed after. He shot through a
doorway and into a small home- and heard a thump above as a soldier's
body fell onto the roof- then crashed out the back door and Lashed
himself upward, narrowly avoiding the next building.
"Was I supposed to save those soldiers, sword-nimi?" Szeth said. "I am
a Radiant now."
I think they would have flown like you instead of falling down, if they'd
wanted to be saved.
There was a profound puzzle in the words, one which Szeth could not
consider. The Fused were deft, more skilled than he was. He dodged
among the streets, but they kept on him. He swung around, left the Ancient
Ward, and shot for the wall- trying to get back to Dalinar. Unfortunately, a
swarm of the enemies cut him off. The rest surrounded him.
Looks like we're cornered, the sword said. Time to fight, right? Accept
death, and die slaying as many as possible? I'm ready. Let's do it. I'm
ready to be a noble sacrifice.
No. He did not win by dying.
Szeth lobbed the gemstone away as hard as he could.
The Fused went after it, leaving him an avenue to escape. He dropped
toward the ground, where spheres glistened like stars. He drew in a deep
breath of Stormlight, then spotted Lift waiting on the field between the
fighting illusions and the waiting parshmen.
Szeth settled down lightly beside her. "I have failed to carry this
burden."
"That's okay. Your weird face is burden enough for one man."
"Your words are wise," he said, nodding.
Lift rolled her eyes. "You're right, sword. He's not very fun, is he?"
I think he's deevy anyway.
Szeth did not know this word, but it sent Lift chortling in a fit of
amusement, which the sword mimicked.
"We have not fulfilled the Blackthorn's demands," Szeth snapped at the
two of them, Stormlight puffing from his lips. "I could not stay ahead of
those Fused long enough to deliver the stone to our master."
"Yeah, I saw," Lift said. "But I've got an idea. People are always after
stuff, but they don't really like the stuff- they like having the stuff."
"These words are ...  not so wise. What do you mean?"
"Simple. The best way to rob someone is leave them thinking that
nothing is wrong.... "
* * *
Shallan clung to Veil's and Radiant's hands.
She'd long since fallen to her knees, staring ahead as tears leaked from
her eyes. Taut, her teeth gritted. She'd made thousands of illusions. Each
one ...  each one was her.
A portion of her mind.
A portion of her soul.
Odium had made a mistake in flooding these soldiers with such thirst
for blood. They didn't care that Shallan fed them illusions- they just
wanted a battle. So she provided one, and somehow her illusions resisted
when the enemy hit them. She thought maybe she was combining
Soulcasting with her Lightweaving.
The enemy howled and sang, exulting in the fray. She painted the
ground red and sprayed the enemy with blood that felt real. She serenaded
them with the sounds of men screaming, dying, swords clashing and bones
breaking.
She absorbed them in the false reality, and they drank it in; they feasted
on it.
Each one of her illusions that died hit her with a little shock. A sliver of
her dying.
Those were reborn as she pushed them out to dance again. Enemy Fused
bellowed for order, trying to rally their troops, but Shallan drowned out
their voices with sounds of screaming and metal on metal.
The illusion absorbed her entirely, and she lost track of everything else.
Like when she was drawing. Creationspren blossomed around her by the
hundred, shaped like discarded objects.
Storms. It was beautiful. She gripped Veil's and Radiant's hands tighter.
They knelt beside her, heads bowed within her painted tapestry of
violence, her- 
"Hey," a girl's voice said. "Could you, uh, stop hugging yourself for a
minute? I need some help."
* * *
Kaladin ducked toward Amaram, thrusting with his spear one-handed.
That was usually a good tactic against an armored man with a sword. His
spear hit right on target, where it would have dug into the armpit of an
ordinary opponent. Here, unfortunately, the spear just slid off. Shardplate
didn't have traditional weak points, other than the eye slit. You had to
break it open with repeated hits, like cracking into a crab's shell.
Amaram laughed, a startlingly genuine mirth. "You have great form,
spearman! Do you remember when you first came to me? Back in that
village, when you begged me to take you? You were a blubbering child
who wanted so badly to be a soldier. The glory of the battle! I could see the
lust in your eyes, boy."
Kaladin glanced toward the Fused, who rounded the cloud, timid,
looking for Dalinar.
Amaram chuckled. With those deep red eyes and the strange crystals
growing from his body, Kaladin hadn't expected him to sound so much
like himself. Whatever hybrid monster this was, it still had the mind of
Meridas Amaram.
Kaladin stepped back, reluctantly changing Syl into a Blade, which
would be better for cracking Plate. He fell into Windstance, which had
always seemed appropriate. Amaram laughed again and surged forward,
his second Shardblade appearing in his waiting grip. Kaladin dodged to the
side, ducking under one Blade and getting at Amaram's back- where he
got in a good hit on the Plate, cracking it. He raised his Blade to attack
again.
Amaram slammed his foot down, and his Shardplate boot shattered,
exploding outward in bits of molten metal. Beneath, his ripped sock
revealed a foot overgrown with carapace and deep violet crystals.
As Kaladin came in for his attack, Amaram tapped his foot, and the
stone ground became liquid for a moment. Kaladin stumbled, sinking
down several inches, as if the rock were crem mud. It hardened in a
moment, locking Kaladin's boots in place.
Kaladin! Syl cried in his mind as Amaram swung with two Shardblades,
parallel to one another. Syl became a halberd in Kaladin's hands, and he
blocked the blows- but their force threw him to the ground, snapping his
ankles.
Teeth gritted, Kaladin hauled his pained feet out of the boots and pulled
himself away. Amaram's weapons sliced the ground behind, narrowly
missing him. Then Amaram's other armored boot exploded, crystals from
inside breaking it apart. The highlord pushed with one foot and glided
across the ground, incredibly quick, approaching Kaladin and swinging.
Syl became a large shield, and Kaladin barely blocked the attack. He
Lashed himself backward, getting out of range as Stormlight healed his
ankles. Storms. Storms!
That Fused! Syl said. She's getting very close to Dalinar.
Kaladin cursed, then scooped up a large stone. He launched it into the
air with several Lashings compounded, which sent it zipping off to slam
into the head of the Fused. She shouted in pain, pulling back.
Kaladin scooped up another stone and Lashed it toward Amaram's
horse.
"Beating up the animal because you can't defeat me?" Amaram asked.
He didn't seem to notice that the horse, in bolting away, carried off the
Shardbow.
I've killed a man wearing that Shardplate before, Kaladin thought. I can
do it again.
Only, he wasn't merely facing a Shardbearer. Amethyst crystals broke
Amaram's armor all up the arms. How did Kaladin defeat ...  whatever this
thing was?
Stab it in the face? Syl suggested.
It was worth a try. He and Amaram fought on the battlefield near the red
mist, on the western shore but between the main body of troops and the
waiting parshmen. The area was mostly flat, except for some broken
building foundations. Kaladin Lashed himself up a few inches, so he
wouldn't sink into the ground if Amaram tried again to do ...  whatever
he'd done. Then he moved backward carefully, positioning himself where
Amaram would likely leap across a broken foundation to get at him.
Amaram stepped up, chuckling softly. Kaladin raised Syl as a
Shardblade, but shifted his grip, preparing for the moment when she'd
become a thin spear he could ram right through that faceplate- 
Kaladin! Syl cried.
Something hit Kaladin with the force of a falling boulder, flinging him
to the side. His body broke, and the world spun.
By instinct, Kaladin Lashed himself upward and forward, opposite the
way he'd been flung. He slowed and released the Lashings right as his
momentum ran out, touching down, then slid to a stop on the stone, pain
fading from a healed shoulder and side.
A brawny Fused- taller even than Amaram in his Plate- dropped a
shattered club that he'd used on Kaladin. His carapace was the color of
stone; he must have been crouching near that foundation, and Kaladin had
taken him for merely another part of the stony field.
As Kaladin watched, the creature's brown carapace crusted up his arms,
covering his face like a helm, growing to thick armor in a matter of
moments. He raised his arms, and carapace spurs grew above and below
the hands.
Delightful.
* * *
Adolin heaved himself up over the rim of a broken rooftop onto a small
alley between two buildings. He'd made it to the Loft Wards of the city,
right above the Ancient Ward. Here, buildings were constructed practically
atop one another in tiers.
The building to his left had been completely flattened. Adolin crept
across rubble. To his right, a main city thoroughfare led upward- toward
the Royal Ward and the Oathgate- but was clogged with people fleeing
from the enemy troops below. This was compounded by the local merchant
guards and platoons of Thaylen military, who struggled against the tide.
Moving on the streets was extremely slow- but Adolin had found one
corridor that was empty. The thunderclast had crossed the Ancient Ward,
kicking down buildings, then had stepped on roofs as it climbed up to the
Loft Wards. This swath of destruction made almost a roadway. Adolin had
managed to follow, using rubble like stairs.
Now he was right in the thing's shadow. The corpse of a Thaylen soldier
drooped from a rooftop nearby, tangled in ropes. It hung there, eyebrows
dangling to brush the ground. Adolin swept past, peeking out between
buildings onto a larger street.
A handful of Thaylens fought here, trying to bring the thunderclast
down. The ropes had been a great idea, but the thing was obviously too
strong to be tripped that way. In the street beyond Adolin, a soldier got in
close and tried to hit the monster's leg with a hammer. The weapon
bounced off. That was old hardened cremstone. The plucky soldier ended
up getting stomped.
Adolin gritted his teeth, summoning his Shardblade. Without Plate, he'd
be as squishy as anyone else. He had to be careful, tactical.
"This is what you were designed for, isn't it?" Adolin said softly as his
Blade dropped into his hand. "It was for fighting things like that.
Shardblades are impractically long for duels, and Plate is overkill even on
the battlefield. But against a monster of stone... "
He felt something. A stirring on the wind.
"You want to fight it, don't you?" Adolin asked. "It reminds you of
when you were alive."
Something tickled his mind, very faint, like a sigh. A single word:
Mayalaran. A ...  name?
"Right, Maya," Adolin said. "Let's bring that thing down."
Adolin waited for it to turn toward the small group of defending
soldiers, then he bolted out along the rubbled street, dashing straight for
the thunderclast. He was barely as tall as its calf.
Adolin didn't use any of the sword stances- he just hacked as if he were
attacking a wall, slicing right along the top of the thing's ankle.
A sudden bang sounded above, like two stones slamming against one
another, as the thing cried out. A shock wave of air washed over Adolin
and the monster turned, thrusting a hand down toward him. Adolin dodged
to the side, but the monster's palm smashed the ground with such force
that Adolin's boots left the ground momentarily. He dismissed Maya as he
fell, then rolled.
He came up puffing on one knee with his hand out, summoning Maya
again. Storms, he was like a rat gnawing on the toes of a chull.
The beast regarded him with eyespots like molten rock just beneath the
surface. He'd heard the descriptions of these things from his father's
visions- but looking up at it, he was struck by the shape of its face and
head.
A chasmfiend, he thought. It looks like a chasmfiend. The head, at least.
The body was vaguely like a thick human skeleton.
"Prince Adolin!" one of the few living soldiers shouted. "It's the son of
the Blackthorn!"
"Protect the prince! Distract the monster from the Shardbearer. It's our
only chance to- "
Adolin lost the last part as the monster swept its hand across the ground.
He barely dodged, then threw himself through the doorway of a low
building. Inside, he leaped over a few bedding pallets, pushed into the next
room, then attacked the brick wall with Maya, cutting in four quick
strikes. He slammed his shoulder against the wall, breaking through the
hole.
As he did, he heard a whimper from behind.
Adolin gritted his teeth. I could use one of those storming Radiants
about now.
He ducked back into the building and flipped over a table, finding a
young boy huddled underneath. That was the only person Adolin saw in
the building. He hauled the boy out right as the thunderclast smashed a fist
down through the roof. Dust billowing after him, Adolin shoved the child
into the arms of a soldier, then pointed both toward the street to the south.
Adolin took off running east, around the side of the building. Maybe he
could climb up to the next level of the Loft Wards and circle the creature.
For all the troops' calls to distract the thing, however, it obviously knew
who to focus on. It stepped over the broken house and thrust a fist toward
Adolin- who leaped through a window into another house, across a table,
then out an open window on the other side.
Crash.
The building fell in behind him. The thing was doing damage to its own
hands with the attacks, leaving the wrists and fingers scored with white
scrapes. It didn't seem to care- and why should it? It had ripped itself
right from the ground to make this body.
Adolin's only advantage, other than his Blade, was his ability to react
faster than the thing. It swung for the next building beyond him, trying to
smash it before he got inside- but he was already doubling back. He ran
underneath the monster's swing, sliding on the chips and dust as the fist
passed narrowly overhead.
That put him in position to run between the thunderclast's legs. He
slashed at the ankle he'd already cut once, digging his Blade deep into the
stone, then whipping it out the other side. Just like a chasmfiend, he
thought. Legs first.
When the thing stepped again, the ankle cracked with a sharp sound,
then its foot broke free.
Adolin braced himself for the pained thunderclap from above, but still
winced at the shock wave. Unfortunately, the monster balanced easily on
the stump of its leg. It was a little clumsier than before, but it was in no
real danger of falling. The Thaylen soldiers had regrouped and gathered up
their ropes, however, so maybe- 
A hand in Shardplate reached out of a building nearby, grabbed Adolin,
and pulled him inside.
* * *
Dalinar held his hands out to the sides, enveloped by the Thrill. It returned
every memory he hated about himself. War and conflict. Times when he'd
shouted Evi into submission. Anger that had driven him to the brink of
madness. His shame.
Though he had once crawled before the Nightwatcher to beg for release,
he no longer wished to forget. "I embrace you," he said. "I accept what I
was."
The Thrill colored his sight red, inflicting a deep longing for the fight,
the conflict, the challenge. If he rejected it, he would drive the Thrill away.
"Thank you," Dalinar said, "for giving me strength when I needed it."
The Thrill thrummed with a pleased sound. It drew in closer to him, the
faces of red mist grinning with excitement and glee. Charging horses
screamed and died. Men laughed as they were cut down.
Dalinar was once again walking on the stone toward the Rift, intent on
murdering everyone inside. He felt the heat of anger. The yearning so
powerful, it made him ache.
"I was that man," Dalinar said. "I understand you."
* * *
Venli crept away from the battlefield. She left the humans to struggle
against shadows in a mess of anger and lust. She walked deeper into the
darkness beneath Odium's storm, feeling strangely sick.
The rhythms were going crazy inside her, merging and fighting. A
fragment from Craving blended into Fury, into Ridicule.
She passed Fused arguing about what to do, now that Odium had
withdrawn. Did they send the parshmen in to fight? They couldn't control
the humans, consumed by one of the Unmade as they were.
Rhythms piled over rhythms.
Agony. Conceit. Destruction. Lost- 
There! Venli thought. Grab that!
She attuned the Rhythm of the Lost. She clung to the solemn beat,
desperate- a rhythm one attuned to remember those you missed. Those
who had gone before.
Timbre thrummed to the same rhythm. Why did that feel different from
before? Timbre vibrated through Venli's entire being.
Lost. What had Venli lost?
Venli missed being someone who cared about something other than
power. Knowledge, favoritism, forms, wealth- it was all the same to her.
Where had she gone wrong?
Timbre pulsed. Venli dropped to her knees. Cold stone reflected
lightning from above, red and garish.
But her own eyes ...  she could see her own eyes in the polished wet
rock.
There wasn't a hint of red in them.
"Life... " she whispered.
The king of the Alethi had reached out toward her. Dalinar Kholin, the
man whose brother they'd killed. But he'd reached from the pillar of
gloryspren all the same, and spoken to her.
You can change.
"Life before death."
You can become a better person.
"Strength before ...  before weakness... "
I did.
"Jou- "
Someone grabbed Venli roughly and spun her over, slamming her to the
ground. A Fused with the form that grew carapace armor like Shardplate.
He looked Venli up and down, and for a panicked moment she was sure
he'd kill her.
The Fused seized her pouch, the one that hid Timbre. She screamed and
clawed at his hands, but he shoved her back, then ripped open the pouch.
Then he turned it inside out.
"I could have sworn... " he said in their language. He tossed the pouch
aside. "You failed to obey the Word of Passion. You did not attack the
enemy when commanded."
"I ...  I was frightened," Venli said. "And weak."
"You cannot be weak in his service. You must choose who you will
serve."
"I choose," she said, then shouted, "I choose!"
He nodded, evidently impressed by her Passion, then stalked back
toward the battlefield.
Venli climbed to her feet and made her way to one of the ships. She
stumbled up the gangway- yet felt crisper, more awake, than she'd been
in a long, long time.
In her mind played the Rhythm of Joy. One of the old rhythms her
people had learned long ago- after casting out their gods.
Timbre pulsed from within her. Inside her gemheart.
"I'm still wearing one of their forms," Venli said. "There was a
Voidspren in my gemheart. How?"
Timbre pulsed to Resolve.
"You've done what?" Venli hissed, stopping on the deck.
Resolve again.
"But how can you... " She trailed off, then hunched over, speaking more
softly. "How can you keep a Voidspren captive?"
Timbre pulsed to Victory within her. Venli rushed toward the ship's
cabin. A parshman tried to forbid her, but she glared him to submission,
then took the ruby sphere from his lantern and went inside, slamming the
door and locking it.
She held up the sphere, and then- heart fluttering- she drank it in. Her
skin started glowing with a soft white light.
"Journey before destination."
* * *
Adolin was confronted by a figure in glistening black Shardplate, a large
hammer strapped to its back. The helm had stylized eyebrows like knives
sweeping backward, and the Plate was skirted with a triangular pattern of
interlocking scales. Cvaderln, he thought, remembering his lists of
Thaylen Shards. It meant, roughly, "shell of Cva."
"Are you Tshadr?" Adolin guessed.
"No, Hrdalm," the Shardbearer said in a thick Thaylen accent. "Tshadr
holds Court Square. I come, stop monster."
Adolin nodded. Outside, the thing sounded its angry call, confronting
the remaining Thaylen troops.
"We need to get out and help those men," Adolin said. "Can you distract
the monster? My Blade can cut, while you can take hits."
"Yes," Hrdalm said. "Yes, good."
Adolin quickly helped Hrdalm get the hammer untied. Hrdalm hefted it,
then pointed at the window. "Go there."
Adolin nodded, waiting by the window as Hrdalm charged out the
doorway and went running straight for the thunderclast, shouting a
Thaylen battle cry. When the thing turned toward Hrdalm, Adolin leaped
out the window and charged around the other side.
Two flying Fused swooped in behind Hrdalm, slamming spears into his
back, tossing him forward. Plate ground against stone as he fell, face-first.
Adolin ran for the thunderclast's leg- but the creature ignored Hrdalm and
fixated on Adolin. It crashed a palm down on the ground nearby, forcing
Adolin to dance backward.
Hrdalm stood up, but a Fused swooped down and kicked him over. The
other landed on his chest and began pounding on his helm with a hammer,
cracking it. As Hrdalm tried to grab her and throw her free, the other one
swooped down and used a spear to pin the hand down. Damnation!
"All right, Maya," Adolin said. "We've practiced this."
He wound up, then hurled the Shardblade, which spun in a gleaming arc
before slamming into the Fused on Hrdalm's chest, piercing her straight
through. Dark smoke trailed from her eyes as they burned away.
Hrdalm sat up, sweeping away the other Fused with a Shard-enhanced
punch. He turned toward the dead one, then looked back at Adolin with a
posture that somehow expressed amazement.
The thunderclast called, sending a wave of sound across the street,
rattling chips of stone. Adolin swallowed, then started counting heartbeats
as he dashed away. The monster crashed along the street behind- but
Adolin soon pulled to a stop in front of a large section of rubble, which
blocked the street. Storms, he'd run the wrong way.
He shouted, spinning around. He hit a count of ten, and Maya returned
to him.
The thunderclast loomed overhead. It thrust its palm down, and Adolin
managed to judge the shadow and dodge between two fingers. As its palm
crashed to the ground, Adolin leaped, trying to avoid being knocked over.
He grabbed a massive finger with his left arm, desperately holding Maya
to the side in his right.
As before, the thunderclast began to rub its palm across the ground, an
attempt to grind Adolin to the stones. He hung from the finger, feet lifted a
few inches off the ground. The sound was terrible, like Adolin was trapped
in a rockslide.
As soon as the thunderclast ended its sweep of the hand, Adolin dropped
off, then raised Maya in a double-handed grip and chopped straight
through the finger. The beast released a thunderclap of anger and pulled its
hand back. The tip of an unbroken finger connected with Adolin and flung
him backward.
Pain.
It hit him like a flash of lightning. He struck the ground and rolled, but
the agony was so sharp, he barely noticed. As he came to a rest, he
coughed and trembled, his body seizing up.
Storms. Stormsstormsstorms ...  He squeezed his eyes shut against the
pain. He'd ...  he'd gotten too accustomed to the invincibility of Plate. But
his suit was back in Urithiru- or hopefully coming here soon on Gaval,
his Plate standby.
Adolin somehow crawled to his feet, each move causing a spear of
agony from his chest. Broken rib? Well, at least his arms and legs were
working.
Move. That thing was still behind him.
One.
The roadway in front of him was piled with rubble from a broken
building.
Two.
He limped to the right- toward the ledge down to the next tier of
homes.
Three. Four.
The thunderclast trumped and followed, its steps shaking the ground.
Five. Six.
He could hear stone grinding just behind.
He fell to his knees.
Seven.
Maya! he thought, truly desperate. Please!
Blessedly, as he raised his hands, the Blade materialized. He slammed it
into the rock wall- the edge pointed to the side, not down- then rolled off
the ledge, holding on to the hilt. The thunderclast's fist came down again,
crashing to the rock. Adolin dangled from Maya's hilt over the edge, a
drop of some ten feet to the rooftop below.
Adolin gritted his teeth- his elbow was hurting badly enough to make
his eyes water. But, once the thunderclast had rubbed its hand to the side,
Adolin grabbed the cliff edge with one hand and swept Maya out to the
side, freeing her from the stone. He reached down and rammed her into the
stone below, then let go and swung from this new handhold a moment
before releasing the Blade and dropping the rest of the way to the rooftop.
His leg screamed in pain. He collapsed to the rooftop, eyes watering. As
he lay there in agony, he felt something- a faint panic on the wind. He
forced himself to roll to the side, and a Fused swept past, its lance barely
missing him.
Need ...  a weapon ... 
He started counting again and climbed, shakily, to his knees. But the
thunderclast loomed on the tier overhead, then rammed its stump leg down
into the center of the stone roof Adolin was on.
Adolin fell in a jumble of broken stone and dust, then hit hard on the
floor inside, chunks of rock clattering around him.
Everything went black. He tried to gasp, but his muscles couldn't make
the motions. He could only lie there, straining, groaning softly. A part of
him was aware of the sounds made as the thunderclast pulled its stump out
of the broken home. He waited for it to smash him, but as his vision
slowly returned, he saw it stepping down from that upper tier onto the
street outside.
At least ...  at least it wasn't continuing on toward the Oathgate.
Adolin shifted. Chips from the shattered roof streamed off him. His face
and hands bled from a hundred scrapes. He recovered his breath, gasping
in pain, and tried to move, but his leg ...  Damnation, that hurt.
Maya brushed his mind.
"I'm trying to get up," he said through gritted teeth. "Give me a sec.
Storming sword." He had another coughing fit, then finally rolled off the
rubble. He crawled out onto the street, half expecting Skar and Drehy to be
there to pull him to his feet. Storms, he missed those bridgemen.
The street was empty around him, though maybe twenty feet away
people crowded, trying to get up the thoroughfare to safety. They called
and shouted in fear and urgency. If Adolin ran that way, the thunderclast
would follow. It had proven determined to bring him down.
He sneered at the looming monster and- leaning against the wall of the
small home he'd fallen into- pulled himself to his feet. Maya dropped
into his hand. Though he was covered in dust, she still shone bright.
He steadied himself, then held Maya in two hands- his grip wetted by
blood- and fell into Stonestance. The immovable stance.
"Come and get me, you bastard," he whispered.
"Adolin?" a familiar voice called from behind. "Storms, Adolin! What
are you doing!"
Adolin started, then glanced over his shoulder. A glowing figure pushed
through the crowd onto his street. Renarin carried a Shardblade, and his
blue Bridge Four uniform was unstained.
Took you long enough.
As Renarin approached, the thunderclast actually took a step back, as if
afraid. Well, that might help. Adolin clenched his teeth, trying to hold in
his agony. He wobbled, then steadied himself. "All right, let's- "
"Adolin, don't be foolhardy!" Renarin grabbed his arm. A burst of
healing moved through Adolin like cold water in his veins, causing his
pains to retreat.
"But- "
"Get away," Renarin said. "You're unarmored. You'll get yourself killed
fighting this thing!"
"But- "
"I can handle it, Adolin. Just go! Please."
Adolin stumbled back. He'd never heard such forceful talk from
Renarin- that was almost more amazing than the monster. Renarin,
shockingly, charged at the thing.
A clatter announced Hrdalm climbing down from above, his Plate's
helm cracked, but otherwise in good shape. He had lost his hammer, but
carried one of the lances from the Fused, and his Plate fist was covered in
blood.
Renarin! He didn't have Plate. How- 
The thunderclast's palm crashed down on Renarin, smashing him.
Adolin screamed, but his brother's Shardblade cut up through the palm,
then separated the hand from the wrist.
The thunderclast trumpeted in anger as Renarin climbed from the rubble
of the hand. He seemed to heal more quickly than Kaladin or Shallan did,
as if being crushed wasn't even a bother.
"Excellent!" Hrdalm said, laughing inside his helm. "You, rest. Okay?"
Adolin nodded, stifling a groan of pain. Renarin's healing had stopped
his insides from aching, and it was no longer painful to put weight on his
leg, but his arms still ached, and some of his cuts hadn't closed.
As Hrdalm stepped toward the fight, Adolin took the man by the arm,
then lifted Maya.
Go with him for now, Maya, Adolin thought.
He almost wished she'd object, but the vague sensation he received was
a resigned agreement.
Hrdalm dropped his lance and took the Blade reverently. "Great Honor
in you, Prince Adolin," he said. "Great Passion in me at this aid."
"Go," Adolin said. "I'll go see if I can help hold the streets."
Hrdalm charged off. Adolin chose an infantry spear from the rubble,
then made toward the roadway behind.
* * *
Szeth of the Skybreakers had, fortunately, trained with all ten Surges.
The Fused transferred the enormous ruby to one of their number who
could manipulate Abrasion- a woman who slid across the ground like Lift
did. She infused the ruby, making it glow with her version of a Lashing.
That would make the thing impossibly slick and difficult to carry for
anyone but the Fused woman herself.
She seemed to think her enemies would have no experience with such a
thing. Unfortunately for them, Szeth had not only carried an Honorblade
that granted this power, he had practiced with skates on ice, a training
exercise that somewhat mimicked an Edgedancer's movements.
And so, as he chased down the gemstone, he gave the Fused woman
plenty of opportunities to underestimate him. He let her dodge, and was
slow to reorient, acting surprised when she slipped this way, then that.
Once the Fused was confident she controlled this race, Szeth struck.
When she leaped off a ledge of stone- soaring a short time in the air- 
Szeth swooped in with a sudden set of Lashings. He collided with her right
as she landed. As his face touched her carapace, he Lashed her upward.
That sent her flying into the air with a scream. Szeth landed and
prepared to follow, then cursed as the Fused fumbled with the gemstone.
He whipped his jacket off as she dropped it. Though one of the flying
Fused swept in to grab it, the ruby slipped out of his fingers.
Szeth caught it in the jacket, held like a pouch. A lucky turn; he had
assumed he would need to attack her again to get it out of her hands.
Now, the real test. He Lashed himself eastward, toward the city. Here, a
chaotic mix of soldiers fought on a painted battlefield. The Lightweaver
was good; even the corpses looked authentic.
A Fused had begun gathering glowing-eyed soldiers who were real, then
putting them with their backs to the city wall. They'd made ranks with
spears bristling outward and yelled for soldiers to join them, but touched
each one who approached. Illusions that tried to get in were disrupted.
Soon the enemy would be able to ignore this distraction, regroup, and
focus on getting through that wall.
Do what Dalinar told you. Get him this gemstone.
The ruby had finally stopped glowing, making it no longer slick. Above,
many Fused swooped to intercept Szeth; they seemed happy to play this
game, for as long as the gemstone was changing hands, it was not being
delivered to Dalinar.
As the first Fused came for him, Szeth ducked into a roll and canceled
his Lashing upward. He collided with a rock, acting dazed. He then shook
his head, took up his pouch with the ruby, and launched into the air again.
Eight Fused gave chase, and though Szeth dodged between them, one
eventually got close enough to seize his pouch and rip it out of his fingers.
They swept away as a flock, and Szeth slowly floated down and landed
beside Lift, who stepped out of the illusory rock. She held a bundle
wrapped in clothing: the real gemstone, which she'd taken from his pouch
during his feigned collision. The Fused now had a false ruby- a rock cut
into roughly the same shape with a Shardblade, then covered in an illusion.
"Come," Szeth said, grabbing the girl and Lashing her upward, then
towing her after him as he swept toward the northern edge of the plain.
This place nearest the red mist had fallen into darkness- the Windrunner
had consumed all of the Stormlight in gemstones on the ground. He fought
against several enemies nearby.
Shadowed darkness. Whispered words. Szeth slowed to a halt.
"What?" Lift asked. "Crazyface?"
"I... " Szeth trembled, fearspren bubbling from the ground below. "I
cannot go into that mist. I must be away from this place."
The whispers.
"I got it," she said. "Go back and help the redhead."
He dropped Lift to the ground and backed away. That churning red mist,
those faces breaking and re-forming and screaming. Dalinar was still in
there, somewhere?
The little girl with the long hair stopped at the border of the mist, then
stepped inside.
* * *
Amaram was screaming in pain.
Kaladin sparred with the Fused who had the strange overgrown
carapace, and couldn't spare a glance. He used the screaming to judge that
he was staying far enough from Amaram to not be immediately attacked.
But storms, it was distracting.
Kaladin swept with the Sylblade, cutting through the Fused's forearms.
That sheared the spurs completely free and disabled the hands. The
creature backed up, growling a soft but angry rhythm.
Amaram's screaming voice approached. Syl became a shield- 
anticipating Kaladin's need- as he raised her toward his side, blocking a
set of sweeping blows from the screaming highlord.
Stormfather. Amaram's helm was cracked from the wicked, sharp
amethysts growing out of the sides of his face. The eyes still glowed
deeply within, and the stone ground somehow burned beneath his crystalcovered feet, leaving flaming tracks behind.
The highprince battered against the Sylshield with two Shardblades.
She, in turn, grew a latticework on the outside- with parts sticking out
like the tines of a trident.
"What are you doing?" Kaladin asked.
Improvising.
Amaram struck again, and Helaran's sword got tangled in the tines.
Kaladin spun the shield, wrenching the sword out of Amaram's grip. It
vanished to smoke.
Now, press the advantage.
Kaladin!
The hulking Fused charged him. The creature's cut arms had regrown,
and- even as it swung its hands- a large club formed there from
carapace. Kaladin barely got Syl in place to block.
It didn't do much good.
The force of the club's sideways blow flung Kaladin against the
remnants of a wall. He growled, then Lashed himself upward into the sky,
Stormlight reknitting him. Damnation. The area around where they were
fighting had grown dark and shadowed, the gemstones drained. Had he
really used so much?
Uh-oh, Syl said, flying around him as a ribbon of light. Dalinar!
The red mist billowed, ominous in the gloom. Red on black. Within it
Dalinar was a shadow, with two flying Fused besetting him.
Kaladin growled again. Amaram had gone hiking for his bow, which had
fallen from the horse's saddle some ways off. Damnation. He couldn't
defeat them all.
He shot down toward the ground. The hulking Fused came for him, and
instead of dodging, Kaladin let the creature ram a knifelike spur into his
stomach.
He grunted, tasting blood, but didn't flinch. He grabbed the creature's
hand and Lashed him upward and toward the mist. The Fused flipped past
his companions in the air, shouting something that sounded like a plea for
help. They zipped after him.
Kaladin stumbled after Amaram, but his footsteps steadied as he healed.
He got a little more Stormlight from some gemstones he'd missed earlier,
then took to the sky. Syl became a lance, and Kaladin swooped down,
causing Amaram to turn away from the bow- still a short distance from
him- and track Kaladin. Crystals had broken through his armor all along
his arms and back.
Kaladin made a charging pass. He wasn't accustomed to flying with a
lance though, and Amaram batted the Syllance aside with a Shardblade.
Kaladin rose up on the other side, considering his next move.
Amaram launched himself into the air.
He soared in an incredible leap, far higher and farther than even
Shardplate would have allowed. And he hung for a time, sweeping close to
Kaladin, who dodged backward.
"Syl," he hissed as Amaram landed. "Syl, that was a Lashing. What is
he?"
I don't know. But we don't have much time before those Fused return.
Kaladin swept down and landed, shortening Syl to a halberd. Amaram
spun on him, eyes within the helm trailing red light. "Can you feel it?" he
demanded of Kaladin. "The beauty of the fight?"
Kaladin ducked in and rammed Syl at Amaram's cracked breastplate.
"It could have been so glorious," Amaram said, swatting aside the
attack. "You, me, Dalinar. Together on the same side."
"The wrong side."
"Is it wrong to want to help the ones who truly own this land? Is it not
honorable?"
"It's not Amaram I speak to anymore, is it? Who, or what, are you?"
"Oh, it's me," Amaram said. He dismissed one of his Blades, grabbed
his helm. With a tug of the hand, it finally shattered, exploding away and
revealing the face of Meridas Amaram- surrounded by amethyst crystals,
glowing with a soft and somehow dark light.
He grinned. "Odium promised me something grand, and that promise
has been kept. With honor."
"You still pretend to speak of honor?"
"Everything I do is for honor." Amaram swept with a single Blade,
making Kaladin dodge. "It was honor that drove me to seek the return of
the Heralds, of powers, and of our god."
"So you could join the other side?"
Lightning flashed behind Amaram, casting red light and long shadows
as he resummoned his second Blade. "Odium showed me what the Heralds
have become. We spent years trying to get them to return. But they were
here all along. They abandoned us, spearman."
Amaram carefully circled Kaladin with his two Shardblades.
He's waiting for the Fused to come help, Kaladin thought. That's why
he's being cautious now.
"I hurt, once," Amaram said. "Did you know that? After I was forced to
kill your squad, I ...  hurt. Until I realized. It wasn't my fault." The color
of his glowing eyes intensified to a simmering crimson. "None of this is
my fault."
Kaladin attacked- unfortunately, he barely knew what he was facing.
The ground rippled and became liquid, almost catching him again. Fire
trailed behind Amaram's arms as he swung with both Shardblades.
Somehow, he briefly ignited the very air.
Kaladin blocked one Blade, then the other, but couldn't get in an attack.
Amaram was fast and brutal, and Kaladin didn't dare touch the ground,
lest his feet freeze to the liquefied stone. After a few more exchanges,
Kaladin was forced to retreat.
"You're outclassed, spearman," Amaram said. "Give in, and convince
the city to surrender. That is for the best. No more need die today. Let me
be merciful."
"Like you were merciful to my friends? Like you were merciful to me,
when you gave me these brands?"
"I left you alive. I spared you."
"An attempt to assuage your conscience." Kaladin clashed with the
highprince. "A failed attempt."
"I made you, Kaladin!" Amaram's red eyes lit the crystals that rimmed
his face. "I gave you that granite will, that warrior's poise. This, the person
you've become, was my gift!"
"A gift at the expense of everyone I loved?"
"What do you care? It made you strong! Your men died in the name of
battle, so that the strongest man would have the weapon. Anyone would
have done what I did, even Dalinar himself."
"Didn't you tell me you'd given up that grief?"
"Yes! I'm beyond guilt!"
"Then why do you still hurt?"
Amaram flinched.
"Murderer," Kaladin said. "You've switched sides to find peace,
Amaram. But you won't ever have it. He'll never give it to you."
Amaram roared, sweeping in with his Shardblades. Kaladin Lashed
himself upward, then- as Amaram passed underneath- twisted and came
back down, swinging in a powerful, two-handed grip. In response to an
unspoken command, Syl became a hammer, which crashed against the
back of Amaram's Plate.
The cuirass-style breastplate- which was all one piece- exploded with
an unexpected force, pushing Kaladin backward across the stone.
Overhead, the lightning rumbled. They were fully in the Everstorm's
shadow, which made it even more ghastly as he saw what had happened to
Amaram.
The highprince's entire chest had collapsed inward. There was no sign
of ribs or internal organs. Instead, a large violet crystal pulsed inside his
chest cavity, overgrown with dark veins. If he'd been wearing a uniform or
padding beneath the armor, it had been consumed.
He turned toward Kaladin, heart and lungs replaced by a gemstone that
glowed with Odium's dark light.
"Everything I've done," Amaram said, blinking red eyes, "I've done for
Alethkar. I'm a patriot!"
"If that is true," Kaladin whispered, "why do you still hurt?"
Amaram screamed, charging him.
Kaladin raised Syl, who became a Shardblade. "Today, what I do, I do
for the men you killed. I am the man I've become because of them."
"I made you! I forged you!" He leaped at Kaladin, propelling himself
off the ground, hanging in the air.
And in so doing, he entered Kaladin's domain.
Kaladin launched at Amaram. The highprince swung, but the winds
themselves curled around Kaladin, and he anticipated the attack. He
Lashed himself to the side, narrowly avoiding one Blade. Windspren
streaked past him as he dodged the other by a hair's width.
Syl became a spear in his grip, matching his motions perfectly. He spun
and slammed her against the gemstone at Amaram's heart. The amethyst
cracked, and Amaram faltered in the air- then dropped.
Two Shardblades vanished to mist as the highprince fell some twenty
feet to crash into the ground.
Kaladin floated downward toward him. "Ten spears go to battle," he
whispered, "and nine shatter. Did that war forge the one that remained?
No, Amaram. All the war did was identify the spear that would not break."
Amaram climbed to his knees, howling with a bestial sound and
clutching the flickering gemstone at his chest, which went out, plunging
the area into darkness.
Kaladin! Syl shouted in Kaladin's mind.
He barely dodged as two Fused swooped past, their lances narrowly
missing his chest. Two more came in from the left, one from the right. A
sixth carried the hulking Fused back, rescued from Kaladin's Lashing.
They'd gone to fetch friends. It seemed the Fused had realized that their
best path to stopping Dalinar was to first remove Kaladin from the
battlefield.
* * *
Renarin puffed in and out as the thunderclast collapsed- crushing houses
in its fall, but also breaking off its arm. It reached upward with its
remaining arm, bleating a plaintive cry. Renarin and his companion- the
Thaylen Shardbearer- had cut off both legs at the knees.
The Thaylen tromped up and slapped him- carefully- on the back with
a Plated hand. "Very good fighting."
"I just distracted it while you cut chunks of its legs off."
"You did good," the Thaylen said. He nodded toward the thunderclast,
which got to its knees, then slipped. "How to end?"
It will fear you! Glys said from within Renarin. It will go. Make it so
that it will go.
"I'll see what I can do," Renarin said to the Thaylen, then carefully
picked his way over to the street and up a level to get a better view of the
thunderclast's head.
"So ...  Glys?" he asked. "What do I do?"
Light. You will make it go with light.
The thing pulled itself up across the rubble of a destroyed building.
Stone rubbed stone as its enormous, wedge-shaped head turned to Renarin.
Recessed molten eyes fluttered, like a sputtering fire.
It was in pain. It could hurt.
It will go! Glys promised, excitable as ever.
Renarin raised his fist and summoned Stormlight. It glowed as a
powerful beacon. And ... 
The red molten eyes faded before that light, and the thing settled down
with a last extinguishing sigh.
His Thaylen companion approached with a soft clinking of Plate.
"Good. Excellent!"
"Go help with the fighting," Renarin said. "I need to open the Oathgate
in person." The man obeyed without question, running for the main
thoroughfare leading down to the Ancient Ward.
Renarin lingered with that stone corpse, troubled. I was supposed to
have died. I saw myself die.... 
He shook his head, then hiked toward the upper reaches of the city.
* * *
Shallan, Veil, and Radiant held hands in a ring. The three flowed, faces
changing, identities melding. Together, they had raised an army.
It was dying now.
A hulking variety of Fused had organized the enemy. These refused to
be distracted. Though Veil, Shallan, and Radiant had made copies of
themselves- to keep the real ones from being attacked- those died as
well.
Wavering. Stormlight running out.
We've strained ourselves too far, they thought.
Three Fused approached, cutting through the dying illusions, marching
through evaporating Stormlight. People fell to their knees and puffed
away.
"Mmmm... " Pattern said.
"Tired," Shallan said, her eyes drowsy.
"Satisfied," Radiant said, proud.
"Worried," Veil said, eyeing the Fused.
They wanted to move. Needed to move. But it hurt to watch their army
die and puff into nothing.
One figure didn't melt like the others. A woman with jet-black hair that
had escaped its usual braids. It blew free as she stepped between the
enemy and Shallan, Radiant, and Veil. The ground turned glossy, the
surface of the stone Soulcast into oil. Veil, Shallan, and Radiant were able
to glimpse it in the Cognitive Realm. It changed so easily. How did Jasnah
manage that?
Jasnah Soulcast a spark from the air, igniting the oil and casting up a
field of flames. The Fused raised hands before their faces, stumbling back.
"That should buy us a few moments." Jasnah turned toward Radiant,
Veil, and Shallan. She took Shallan by the arm- but Shallan wavered, then
puffed away. Jasnah froze, then turned to Veil.
"Here," Radiant said, tired, stumbling to her feet. She was the one
Jasnah could feel. She blinked away tears. "Are you ...  real?"
"Yes, Shallan. You did well out here." She touched Radiant's arm, then
glanced toward the Fused, who were venturing into the fires despite the
heat. "Damnation. Perhaps I should have opened a pit beneath them
instead."
Shallan winced as the last of her army- like the shredded light of a
setting sun- vanished. Jasnah proffered a gemstone, which Radiant drank
eagerly.
Amaram's troops had begun to form ranks again.
"Come," Jasnah said, pulling Veil back to the wall, where steps grew
from the stone itself.
"Soulcast?" Shallan asked.
"Yes." Jasnah stepped onto the first, but Shallan didn't follow.
"We shouldn't have ignored this," Radiant said. "We should have
practiced this." She slipped- for a moment- into viewing Shadesmar.
Beads rolled and surged beneath her.
"Not too far," Jasnah warned. "You can't bring your physical self into
the realm, as I once assumed you could, but there are things here that can
feast upon your mind."
"If I want to Soulcast the air. How?"
"Avoid air until you practice further," Jasnah said. "It is convenient, but
difficult to control. Why don't you try to turn some stone into oil, as I did?
We can fire it as we climb the steps, and further impede the enemy."
"I... " So many beads, so many spren, churning in the lake that marked
Thaylen City. So overwhelming.
"That rubble near the wall will be easier than the ground itself," Jasnah
said, "as you'll be able to treat those stones as distinct units, while the
ground views itself all as one."
"It's too much," Shallan said, exhaustionspren spinning around her. "I
can't, Jasnah. I'm sorry."
"It is well, Shallan," Jasnah said. "I merely wanted to see, as it seemed
you were Soulcasting to give your illusions weight. But then, concentrated
Stormlight has a faint mass to it. Either way, up the steps, child."
Radiant started up the stone steps. Behind, Jasnah waved her hand
toward the approaching Fused- and stone formed from air, completely
encasing them.
It was brilliant. Any who saw it in only the Physical Realm would be
impressed, but Radiant saw so much more. Jasnah's absolute command
and confidence. The Stormlight rushing to do her will. The air itself
responding as if to the voice of God himself.
Shallan gasped in wonder. "It obeyed. The air obeyed your call to
transform. When I tried to make a single little stick change, it refused."
"Soulcasting is a practiced art," Jasnah said. "Up, up. Keep walking."
She sliced the steps off as they walked. "Remember, you mustn't order
stones, as they are more stubborn than men. Use coercion. Speak of
freedom and of movement. But for a gas becoming a solid, you must
impose discipline and will. Each Essence is different, and each offers
advantages and disadvantages when used as a substrate for Soulcasting."
Jasnah glanced over her shoulder at the gathering army. "And
perhaps ...  this is one time when a lecture isn't advisable. With all my
complaints about not wanting wards, you'd think I would be able to resist
instructing people at inopportune times. Keep moving."
Feeling exhausted, Veil, Shallan, and Radiant trudged up and finally
reached the top of the wall.
* * *
After how hard it had been for Renarin to get up to fight the thunderclast
- he'd spent what seemed like an eternity caught in the press of people- 
he'd expected to have to work to cover the last distance to the Oathgate.
However, people were moving more quickly now. The ones up above must
have cleared off the streets, hiding in the many temples and buildings in
the Royal Ward.
He was able to move with the flow of people. Near the top tier, he
ducked into a building and walked to the back, past some huddled
merchants. Most of the buildings here were a single story, so he used Glys
to cut a hole in the roof. He then hollowed out some handholds in the rock
wall and climbed up on top.
Beyond, he was able to get onto the street leading to the Oathgate
platform. He was ...  unaccustomed to being able to do things like this. Not
only using the Shardblade, but being physical. He'd always been afraid of
his fits, always worried that a moment of strength would instantly become
a moment of invalidity.
Living like that, you learned to stay back. Just in case. He hadn't
suffered a fit in a while. He didn't know if that was just a coincidence- 
they could be irregular- or if they had been healed, like his bad eyesight.
Indeed, he still saw the world differently from everyone else. He was still
nervous talking to people, and didn't like being touched. Everyone else
saw in each other things he never could understand. So much noise and
destruction and people talking and cries for help and sniffles and
muttering and whispering all like buzzing, buzzings.
At least here, on this street near the Oathgate, the crowds had
diminished. Why was that? Wouldn't they have pressed up here, hoping
for escape? Why ... 
Oh.
A dozen Fused hovered in the sky above the Oathgate, lances held
formally before themselves, clothing draping beneath them and fluttering.
Twelve. Twelve.
This, Glys said, would be bad.
Motion caught his attention: a young girl standing in a doorway and
waving at him. He walked over, worried the Fused would attack him.
Hopefully his Stormlight- which he'd mostly used up fighting the
thunderclast- wasn't bright enough to draw their ire.
He entered the building, another single-story structure with a large open
room at the front. It was occupied by dozens of scribes and ardents, many
of whom huddled around a spanreed. Children that he couldn't see
crowded the back rooms, but he could hear their whimpers. And he heard
the scratching, scratching, scratching of reeds on paper.
"Oh, bless the Almighty," Brightness Teshav said, appearing from the
mass of people. She pulled Renarin deeper into the room. "Have you any
news?"
"My father sent me up here to help," Renarin said. "Brightness, where
are General Khal and your son?"
"In Urithiru," she said. "They transferred back to gather forces, but
then ...  Brightlord, there's been an attack at Urithiru. We've been trying to
get information via spanreed. It appears that a strike force of some kind
arrived at the advent of the Everstorm."
"Brightness!" Kadash called. "Spanreed to Sebarial's scribes is
responding again. They apologize for the long delay. Sebarial pulled back,
following Aladar's command, to the upper levels. He confirms that the
attackers are parshmen."
"The Oathgates?" Renarin asked, hopeful. "Can they reach those, and
open the way here?"
"Not likely. The enemy is holding the plateau."
"Our armies have the advantage at Urithiru, Prince Renarin," Teshav
said. "Reports agree that the enemy strike force isn't nearly large enough
to defeat us there. This is obviously a delaying tactic to keep us from
activating the Oathgate and bringing help to Thaylen City."
Kadash nodded. "Those Fused above the Oathgate held even when the
stone monster outside was falling. They know their orders- keep that
device from being activated."
"Radiant Malata is the only way for our armies to reach us through the
Oathgate," Teshav said. "But we can't contact her, or any of the
Kharbranth contingent. The enemy struck them first. They knew exactly
what they had to do to cripple us."
Renarin took a deep breath, drawing in Stormlight that Teshav was
carrying. His glow lit the room, and eyes all through the chamber looked
up from spanreeds, turning toward him.
"The portal has to be opened," Renarin said.
"Your Highness... " Teshav said. "You can't fight them all."
"There's nobody else." He turned to go.
Shockingly, nobody called for him to stop.
All his life they'd done that. No, Renarin. That's not for you. You can't
do that. You're not well, Renarin. Be reasonable, Renarin.
He'd always been reasonable. He'd always listened. It felt wonderful
and terrifying at once to know that nobody did that today. The spanreeds
continued their scratching, moving on their own, oblivious to the moment.
Renarin stepped outside.
Terrified, he strode down the street, summoning Glys as a Shardblade.
As he approached the ramp up to the Oathgate, the Fused descended. Four
landed on the ramp before him, then gave him a gesture not unlike a
salute, humming to a frantic tune he did not know.
Renarin was so frightened, he worried he'd wet himself. Not very noble
or brave, now was he?
Ah ...  what will come now? Glys said, voice thrumming through
Renarin. What emerges?
One of his fits struck him.
Not the old fits, where he grew weak. He had new ones now, that neither
he nor Glys could control. To his eyes, glass grew across the ground. It
spread out like crystals, forming lattices, images, meanings and pathways.
Stained-glass pictures, panel after panel.
These had always been right. Until today- until they had proclaimed
that Jasnah Kholin's love would fail.
He read this latest set of stained-glass images, then felt his fear drain
away. He smiled. This seemed to confuse the Fused as they lowered their
salutes.
"You're wondering why I'm smiling," Renarin said.
They didn't respond.
"Don't worry," Renarin said. "You didn't miss something funny. I ... 
well, I doubt you'll find it amusing."
Light exploded from the Oathgate platform in a wave. The Fused cried
out in a strange tongue, zipping into the air. A luminous wall expanded
from the Oathgate platform in a ring, trailing a glowing afterimage.
It faded to reveal an entire division of Alethi troops in Kholin blue
standing upon the Oathgate platform.
Then, like a Herald from lore, a man rose into the air above them.
Glowing white with Stormlight, the bearded man carried a long silver
Shardspear with a strange crossguard shape behind the tip.
Teft.
Knight Radiant.
* * *
Shallan sat with her back against the battlement, listening to soldiers shout
orders. Navani had given her Stormlight and water, but was currently
distracted by reports from Urithiru.
Pattern hummed from the side of Veil's jacket. "Shallan? You did well,
Shallan. Very well."
"An honorable stand," Radiant agreed. "One against many, and we held
our ground."
"Longer than we should have," Veil said. "We were already exhausted."
"We're still ignoring too much," Shallan said. "We're getting too good
at pretending." She had decided to stay with Jasnah in the first place to
learn. But when the woman returned from the dead, Shallan had- instead
of accepting training- immediately fled. What had she been thinking?
Nothing. She'd been trying to hide away things she didn't want to face.
Like always.
"Mmm... " Pattern said, a concerned hum.
"I'm tired," Shallan whispered. "You don't have to worry. After I rest,
I'll recover and settle down to being just one. I actually ...  actually don't
think I'm quite as lost as I was before."
Jasnah, Navani, and Queen Fen whispered together farther along the
wall. Thaylen generals joined them, and fearspren gathered around. The
defense, in their opinion, was going poorly. Reluctantly, Veil pushed
herself to her feet and surveyed the battlefield. Amaram's forces were
gathering beyond bow range.
"We delayed the enemy," Radiant said, "but didn't defeat them. We still
have an overwhelming army to face.... "
"Mmmm... " Pattern said, high pitched, worried. "Shallan, look.
Beyond."
Out nearer the bay, thousands upon thousands of fresh parshman troops
had begun to carry ladders off their ships to use in a full-on assault.
* * *
"Tell the men not to give chase to those Fused," Renarin said to Lopen.
"We need to hold the Oathgate, first and foremost."
"Good enough, sure," Lopen said, launching into the sky and going to
relay the order to Teft.
The Fused clashed with Bridge Four in the air over the city. This group
of enemies seemed more skilled than the ones Renarin had seen below, but
they didn't fight so much as defend themselves. They were progressively
moving the clash farther out over the city, and Renarin worried they were
deliberately drawing Bridge Four away from the Oathgate.
The Alethi division marched into the city with shouts of praise and joy
from the surrounding people. Two thousand men wasn't going to do much
if those parshmen outside joined the battle, but it was a start- plus,
General Khal had brought not one, but three Shardbearers. Renarin did his
best to explain the city situation, but was embarrassed to tell the Khals
that he didn't know his father's status.
As they reunited with Teshav- turning her scribe station into a
command post- Rock and Lyn landed next to Renarin.
"Ha!" Rock said. "What happened to uniform? Is needing my needle."
Renarin looked down at his tattered clothing. "I got hit by a large block
of stone. Twenty times ...  You're not one to complain, anyway. Is that your
blood on your uniform?"
"Is nothing!"
"We had to carry him all the way down to the Oathgate," Lyn said. "We
were trying to get him to you, but he started drawing in Stormlight as soon
as he got here."
"Kaladin is close," Rock agreed. "Ha! I feed him. But here, today, he fed
me. With light!"
Lyn eyed Rock. "Storming Horneater weighs as much as a chull.... " She
shook her head. "Kara will fight with the others- don't tell anyone, but
she's been practicing with a spear since childhood, the little cheater. But
Rock won't fight, and I've only been handling a spear for a few weeks
now. Any idea where you want us?"
"I'm ...  um ...  not really in command or anything.... "
"Really?" Lyn said. "That's your best Knight Radiant voice?"
"Ha!" Rock said.
"I think I used up all my Radianting for the day," Renarin said. "Um, I'll
work the Oathgate and get more troops here. Maybe you two could go
down and help on the city wall, pull wounded out of the front lines?"
"Is good idea," Rock said. Lyn nodded and flew off, but Rock lingered,
then grabbed Renarin in a very warm, suffocating, and unexpected
embrace.
Renarin did his best not to squirm. It wasn't the first hug he'd endured
from Rock. But ...  storms. You weren't supposed to just grab someone like
that.
"Why?" Renarin said after the embrace.
"You looked like person who needed hug."
"I assure you, I never look like that. But, um, I am glad you guys came.
Really, really glad."
"Bridge Four," Rock said, then launched into the air.
Renarin settled down nearby on some steps, trembling from it all, but
grinning anyway.
* * *
Dalinar drifted in the Thrill's embrace.
He'd once believed he had been four men in his life, but he now saw
he'd grossly underestimated. He hadn't lived as two, or four, or six men- 
he had lived as thousands, for each day he became someone slightly
different.
He hadn't changed in one giant leap, but across a million little steps.
The most important always being the next, he thought as he drifted in
the red mist. The Thrill threatened to take him, control him, rip him apart
and shred his soul in its eagerness to please him- to give him something it
could never understand was dangerous.
A small hand gripped Dalinar's.
He started, looking down. "L-Lift? You shouldn't have come in here."
"But I'm the best at going places I'm not supposed to." She pressed
something into his hand.
The large ruby.
Bless you.
"What is it?" she said. "Why do you need that rock?"
Dalinar squinted into the mists. Do you know how we capture spren,
Dalinar? Taravangian had said. You lure the spren with something it loves.
You give it something familiar to draw it in ... 
Something it knows deeply.
"Shallan saw one of the Unmade in the tower," he whispered. "When
she got close, it was afraid, but I don't think the Thrill comprehends like it
did. You see, it can only be bested by someone who deeply, sincerely,
understands it."
He lifted the gemstone above his head, and- one last time- embraced
the Thrill.
War.
Victory.
The contest.
Dalinar's entire life had been a competition: a struggle from one
conquest to the next. He accepted what he had done. It would always be
part of him. And though he was determined to resist, he would not cast
aside what he had learned. That very thirst for the struggle- the fight, the
victory- had also prepared him to refuse Odium.
"Thank you," he whispered again to the Thrill, "for giving me strength
when I needed it."
The Thrill churned close around him, cooing and exulting in his praise.
"Now, old friend, it is time to rest."
* * *
Keep moving.
Kaladin dodged and wove, avoiding some strikes, healing from others.
Keep them distracted.
He tried to take to the skies, but the eight Fused swarmed about him,
knocking him back down. He hit the stone ground, then Lashed himself
laterally, away from the stabbing lances or crushing clubs.
Can't actually escape.
He had to keep their attention. If he managed to slip away, all of these
would turn against Dalinar.
You don't have to beat them. You simply have to last long enough.
He dodged to the right, skimming a few inches above the ground. But
one of the hulking Fused- there were four fighting him now- grabbed
him by the foot. She slammed him down, then carapace grew down along
her arms, threatening to bind Kaladin to the ground.
He kicked her off, but another grabbed him by the arm and flung him to
the side. Flying ones descended, and while he warded away their lances
with the Sylshield, his side throbbed with pain. The healing was coming
more slowly now.
Two other Fused swept along, scooping up nearby gemstones, leaving
Kaladin in an ever-expanding ring of darkness.
Just buy time. Dalinar needs time.
Syl sang in his mind as he spun, forming a spear and ramming it
through the chest of one of the hulking ones. Those could heal unless you
stabbed them in exactly the right spot in the sternum, and he'd missed. So,
he made Syl into a sword and- the weapon still embedded in the Fused
woman's chest- swept upward through the head, burning her eyes.
Another hulking Fused swung, but as it hit- the club being part of the
thing's actual body- Kaladin used much of his remaining Stormlight to
Lash this man upward, crashing him into a Fused above.
Another clobbered him from the side, sending him rolling. Red
lightning pulsed overhead as he came to a rest on his back. He
immediately summoned Syl as a spear, pointing straight up. That impaled
the Fused dropping down to attack him, cracking its sternum within,
causing its eyes to burn.
Another grabbed him by the foot and lifted him, then slammed him
face-first into the ground. That knocked Kaladin's breath out. The
monstrous Fused stomped a carapace-encrusted foot onto his back,
shattering ribs. Kaladin screamed, and though the Stormlight healed what
it could, the last of it fluttered inside.
Then went out.
A sudden sound rose behind Kaladin, like that of rushing air- 
accompanied by wails of pain. The Fused stumbled backward, muttering to
a quick, worried rhythm. Then, remarkably, it turned and ran.
Kaladin twisted, looking behind himself. He couldn't make out Dalinar
anymore, but the mist itself had begun to thrash. Surging and pulsing, it
whipped about like it was caught in a powerful wind.
More Fused fled. That wailing grew louder, and the mist seemed to roar
- a thousand faces stretching from it, mouths opened in agony. They were
sucked back together, like rats pulled by their tails.
The red mist imploded, vanishing. All went dark, with the storm
overhead growing still.
Kaladin found himself lying broken on the ground. Stormlight had
healed his vital functions; his organs would probably be intact, though his
cracked bones left him gasping with pain when he tried to sit up. The
spheres around the area were dun, and the darkness prevented him from
spotting whether Dalinar lived.
The mist was entirely gone. That seemed a good sign. And in the
darkness, Kaladin could see something streaking from the city. Brilliant
white lights flying in the air.
A scraping sound came from nearby, and then a violet light flickered in
the darkness. A shadow stumbled to its feet, dark purple light pulsing alive
in its chest cavity, which was empty save for that gemstone.
Amaram's glowing red eyes illuminated a distorted face: his jaw had
broken as he'd fallen, and gemstones had pushed out the sides of his face
at awkward angles, making the jaw hang limp from his mouth, drool
leaking out the side. He stumbled toward Kaladin, gemstone heart pulsing
with light. A Shardblade formed in his hand. The one that had killed
Kaladin's friends so long ago.
"Amaram," Kaladin whispered. "I can see what you are. What you've
always been."
Amaram tried to speak, but his drooping jaw only let out spittle and
grunts. Kaladin was struck by a memory of the first time he'd seen the
highlord at Hearthstone. So tall and brave. Seemingly perfect.
"I saw it in your eyes, Amaram," Kaladin whispered as the husk of a
man stumbled up to him. "When you killed Coreb and Hab and my other
friends. I saw the guilt you felt." He licked his lips. "You tried to break me
as a slave. But you failed. They rescued me."
Maybe it's time for someone to save you, Syl had said in Shadesmar. But
someone already had.
Amaram raised the Shardblade high.
"Bridge Four," Kaladin whispered.
An arrow slammed into Amaram's head from behind, going right
through the skull, coming out his inhuman mouth. Amaram stumbled
forward, dropping his Shardblade, the arrow stuck in his head. He made a
choking sound, then turned about just in time to catch another arrow
straight in the chest- right through the flickering gemstone heart.
The amethyst exploded, and Amaram dropped in a crumbled wreck
beside Kaladin.
A glowing figure stood on some rubble beyond, holding Amaram's
enormous Shardbow. The weapon seemed to match Rock, tall and brilliant,
a beacon in the darkness.
Amaram's red eyes faded as he died, and Kaladin had the distinct
impression of a dark smoke escaping his corpse. Two Shardblades formed
beside him and clanged to the stone.